 What Gentlemen ? all mine old acquaintance ?  A whole triplicity of friends together ? nay then  'T is three to one we shall not soone part Company .  You say right , Mr. Whetstone I have bin , Mr. Whetstone I am , and Mr. Whetstone I shall be , and those that know me , know withall that I have not my name for nothing , I am hee whom all the brave Blades of the Country use to whet their wits upon ; sweet Mr. Shakton , dainty Mr. Bantham , and dainty Mr. Arthur , and how , and how , what all lustick , all froligozone ? I know , you are going to my Vncles to dinner , and so am I too , What shall we all make one randevous there ,  You need not doubt of your welcome .  Where doe I lye ? why sometimes in one place , and then againe in another , I love to shift lodgings ; but most constantly , wheresoere I dine or sup , there doe I lye ?  But where so euer I lye 't is no matter for that ,  I pray you say , and say truth , are not you three now  Going to dinner to my Vncles ?  How ? A Witch Gentlemen ? I hope you doe not meane to abuse me , though at this time ( if report be true there are too many of them here in our Country ) but I am sure I look like no such ugly Creature .  No such kinde of people ! I pray you tell me Gentlemen , did never any one of you know my Mother ?  I doe not say as Witches goe now a dayes , for they for the most part are ugly old Beldams , but she was a lusty young Lasse , and by her owne report , by her beauty and faire lookes bewitcht my Father .  You say right , and know withall I come of two ancient Families , for as I am a Whetstone by the Mother-side , so I am a By-blow by the Fathers .  I would have you thinke I scorne like my Granams  Cat to leape over the Hatch .  Howsoever I was begot , here you see I am ,  And if my Parents went to it without feare or wit ,  What can I helpe it .  Gentlemen , it seemes you have some private businesse amongst your selves , which I am not willing to interrupt , I know not how the day goes with you , but for mine owne part , my stomacke is now much upon 12.  You know what houre my Vncle keeeps , and I love ever to bee set before the first grace , I am going before , speake , shall I acquaint him with your comming after ?  And you know it is his custome to fare well ,  And in that respect I think I may be his kinsman ,  And so farewell Gentlemen , I le be your fore-runner ,  To give him notice of your visite .  I see you are perfect both in my name & sirname ; I have bin ever bound unto you , for which I will at this time be your  Noverint , and give him notice that you Universi will bee with him per praesentes , and that I take to be presently .  My hand is there too , for a man cannot set to his Marke , but it may be call'd his hand ; I am a Gentleman both wayes , and it hath been held that it is the part of a Gentleman , to write a scurvie hand .  Hey day , this Gentleman speakes likes a Country  Parson that had tooke his text out of Ovids Metamorphosis .  Say you so Gentlemen , nay then I am for your company still , 't is sayd Hares are like Hermophrodites , one while Male , and another Female , and that which begets this yeare , brings young ones the next ; which some think to be the reason that witches take their shapes so oft : Nay if I lye Pliny lyes too , but come , now I have light upon you , I cannot so lightly leave you farewell Vnckle .  And I le take the brown dogs part against the pide   The browne dogge for two peeces .  Of what you dare ; name them from the last  Farthings with the double rings , to the late  Coy'nd peeces which they say are all counterfeit .  What needs that ? doe you thinke my word and my money is not all one ?  I thinke I have reason , for I have bin at the death of more Hares .  Another leap into a river , nothing appearing above water , save onely the tip of her nose to take breath .  You say right , I know another , who to escape the  Dogges hath taken a house , and leapt in at a window .  How meane you that ?  Bastard ! O base .  Bastard ? that shall be tried ; well Gentlemen concerning Hare-hunting you might have hard more , if he had had the grace to have said lesse , but for the word Bastard , if I do not tell my Vncle , I and my Aunt too , either when I would speake ought or goe of the skore for any thing , let me never be trusted , they are older than I , and what know I , but they might bee by when I was begot ; but if thou Bantam do'st not heare of this with both thine eares , if thou hast them still , and not lost them by scribling , instead of Whet-stone call me Grinde-stone , and for By-blow , Bulfinch . Gentlemen , for two of you your companie is faire and honest ; but for you Bantam , remember and take notice also , that I am a bastard , and so much I 'le testifie to my Aunt and Vncle .  And I ! Yet I feare nothing thank my Aunt .  I say so too , and so my Aunt ever told me , so long I will feare nothing ; be not afrayd Mr. Doughty .  Sir , what I know I 'le keepe to my selfe , a good civile merry harmlesse rogue she is , and comes to my Aunt often , and that 's all I know by her .  And you may do well to question her if you dare . For the testy old coxcombe that will not let her goe out of his hand .  What do's the Divell ride o' your Fiddlestickes .  I tell you sir , they say shee made a payle follow her t'other day up two payre of stayres .  Oh brave Fidlers , there was never better scuffling for the Tudberry Bull .  She has spoke to purpose , & whether this were witchcraft or not : I have heard my Aunt say twentie times , that no Witchcraft can take hold of a Lancashire Bag-pipe , for it selfe is able to charme the Devell , I le fetch him .  Very good , I like this beginning well : for where they sleighted me before , they shall finde me a man of note .  Heer 's a more privat roome gentlemen , free from the noise of the Hall . Here we may talke , and throw the chamber out of the casements . Some wine and a short banquet .  So now leave us .  Yes , I thanke my Aunt ; for though I be but a daily guest yet I can be welcome to her at midnight .  But no such discourse as we had last , beseech you .  I thinke so too ; but what 's that amongst friends , for I would faine know which amongst you all knowes his owne father .  I presume you had no more priviledge in your getting than I . But tell me gentlemen , is there any man here amongst you , that hath a minde to see his father ?  That 's all one ; if any man here desire it , let him but speake the word , and 't is sufficient .  Doe you know him that lookes so full in your face ;  In his house , that goes for your father you would say : For know one morning , when your mothers husband rid early to have a Nisi prius tryed at Lancaster Syzes , hee crept into his warme place , lay close by her side , and then were you got . Then come , your heeles and tayle together , and kneele unto your own deare father .  Why laugh you Gentlemen ? It may be more mens cases than his or mine . Bant . To be thus geer'd .  Would either of you two now see his father in earnest   Hee lookes on you speake , doe you know him ?  Who when hee came to take measure of her upper parts had more minde to the lower , whilest the good man was in the fields hunting , he was at home whoring .  Then , since no better comfort can be had ,  Come downe , come downe , aske blessing of your dad .  He points at you .  You know him .  And never served your father ?  Who when your supposed father had businesse at the Lord Presidents Court in Yorke , stood for his Atturney at home , & so it seems you were got by deputy : what all a mort ? if  you will have but a little patience , stay & you shall see mine too :  And know I shew you him the rather ,  To finde who hath the best man to his Father .  Now Gentlemen make me your President , learne your duties , and doe as I doe — A blessing Dad .  Come , come , let 's home , we 'l finde some other time ,  When to dispute of these things —  : Nay Gent. no parting in spleene , since we have begun in mirth , let 's not end in melancholy ; you see there are more By-blowes than beare the name ; It is growne a great kindred in the Kingdome . Come , come , all friends ; Let 's into the Cellar and conclude our Revels in a lusty health .  In my Vncles absence who but I should comfort my Aunt ,  Am I not of the Bloud , am not I next of Kin ?  Why Aunt ?  The Divell shall leave you ere I le forsake you , Aunt , you know , Sic is So , and being so sicke doe you thinke I le leave you , what know I but this Bed may prove your death-bed , and and then I hope you will remember me , that is , remember me in your Will .  Who 's that knocks with such authority . Ten to one my Vncle 's come to towne .  Doe good Mal , and how , and how sweet Aunt ?  O Vncle you come in good time , my Aunt is so suddainly taken as if she were ready to give up the spirit .  Hath my Aunt bin playing at handee dandee , nay then if the game goe this way I feare she 'l have the worst hand on 't .  Well Sir , though you be no Vnckle , yet mine Aunt 's mine Aunt , and shall be to her dying day .  Well Sir , mine Aunt 's mine Aunt , and for that trick I will not leave her till I see her doe a worse . 