 Was ever sport of expectation ,  Thus crost in th' height .  So you may call them  Chances , or crosses , or what else you please ,  But for my part , I le hold them prodigies ,  As things transcending Nature .  A Hare ? a Witch , or rather a Divell I think .  For tell me Gentlemen , was 't possible  In such a faire course , and no covert neere ,  We in pursuit , and she in constant view ,  Our eyes not wandring but all bent that way ,  The Dogs in chase , she ready to be ceas'd ,  And at the instant , when I durst have layd  My life to gage , my Dog had pincht her , then  To vanish into nothing !  Make it plaine  That I am in an error , sure I am  That I about me have no borrow'd eyes .  They are mine owne , and Matches .  Well well Gentlemen , be you of your own faith , but ( what I see  And is to me apparent , being in sence ,  My wits about me , no way tost nor troubled ,  to that will I give credit .  Yes where we purpos'd .  True , the same .  And where a loving welcome is presum'd ,  Whose liberall Table 's never unprepar'd ,  Nor he of guests unfurnisht , of his meanes ,  There 's none can beare it with a braver port ,  And keepe his state unshaken , one who sels not  Nor covets he to purchase , holds his owne  Without oppressing others , alwayes prest  To indeere to him any knowne Gentleman  In whom he finds good parts .  I cannot wind him up  Vnto the least part of his noble worth .  T is far above my strength .  Tush let him passe ,  He is not worth our luring , a meere Coxcombe ,  It is a way to call our wits in question ,  To have him seene amongst us .  That 's my griefe ; a most notorious lyar , out upō him .  Delicate Master Whetstone .  I never heard that word proceed from him  I durst call truth till now .  Why was your Mother a Witch ?  It appeares then by your discourse , that you came in at the window .  And I beleeve 't as a notorious truth .  Very probable , for as he was got without feare ,  So it is apparent he was borne without wit .  Kind Mr. Byblow .  Farewell As in praesenti .  What because he hath read a little Scriveners Latine , hee never proceeded farther in his Accidence than to Mentiri non est meum ; and that was such a hard Lesson to learne , that he stucke at mentiri ; and cu'd never reach to non est meum : since , a meere Ignaro , and not worth acknowledgement .  As you see him now , so shall you finde him ever : all in one strain , there is one only thing which I wonder he left our .  Of the same affinity with the rest .  At every second word , he his commonly boasting  either of his Aunt or his Vncle .  Noble sir , you generously instruct us , and to expresse  We can be your apt schollers : in a word  Wee come to dine with you .  Sir without flattery  You may be call'd the sole surviving sonne  Of long since banisht Hospitality .  Presume it sir .  Would these my friends prepare the way before ,  To be resolved of one thing before dinner  Would something adde unto mine appetite ,  Shall I intreat you so much .  I come not sir  To presse a promise from you , tak 't not so ,  Rather to prompt your memory in a motion  Made to you not long since .  True sir the same .  It was to that purpose wee discourst .  To denie that I should appeare toth ' World  Stupid , and of no braine .  And I remaine a man oblig'd to you .  Beyond all utterance .  Sir he hath , not that he is unwilling or unable .  But at this time unfit to be solicited ;  For to the Countries wonder and my sorrow ,  Hee is much to be pitied .  Because hee 's late become the sole discourse  Of all the countrey ; for of a man respected  For his discretion and knowne gravitie ,  As master of a govern'd Family ,  The house ( as if the ridge were fixt below ,  And groundfils lifted up to make the roofe )  All now turn'd topsie turvy ,  In such a retrograde & preposterous way  As seldome hath bin heard of . I thinke never .  The good man , in all obedience kneels vnto his son ,  Hee with an austere brow commands his father .  The wife presumes not in the daughters sight  Without a prepared courtesie . The girle , shee  Expects it as a dutie ; chides her mother  Who quakes and trembles at each word she speaks ,  And what 's as strange , the Maid she dominiers  O're her yong mistris , who is aw'd by her .  The son to whom the Father creeps and bends ,  Stands in as much feare of the groome his man .  All in such rare disorder , that in some  As it breeds pitty , and in others wonder ;  So in the most part laughter .  T' is thought by Witchcraft .  'T is confest , but for that word by you so seldome spoke  By us so freely on your part perform'd ,  VVe hold us much ingag'd .  For my part , could I at once dissolve my selfe to words  And after turne them into matter ; such  And of that strength , as to attract the attention  Of all the curious , and most itching eares  Of this our Crittick age ; it cou'd not make  A theame amounting to your noble worth :  You seeme to me to super-arrogate ,  Supplying the defects of all your kindred  To innoble your own name : I now have done Sir .  Sir , sir , whilst you persever to be good  I must continue gratefull .  VVe are like travellers  And where such bayt , they doe not use to Inne .  Our love and service to you .  VVe 'l try if we can finde in our way home  VVhen Hares come from their coverts , to reliffe ,  A course or too .  Good Master Generous —  My Dog as yours .  A piece .  Bantam forbeare him prethee .  Needs must I now condemne your indiscretion ,  To set your wit against his .  What have you done , 't will grieve the good old Gentleman , to heare him baffled thus .  This begins bravely .  And if this were not a Capon in white broth , I am one i' the Coope .  Dare we ! why not , I defie all VVitches , and all their workes ; their power on our meat , cannot reach our persons .  Sir I will not goe about to over-rule your reason , but  but for my part I will not out of a house on a Bridall day , till I see the last man borne .  It seemes though these Hags had power to make the Wedding cheere a Deceptio visus , the former store has scap'd 'em .  VVas there ever such a medley of mirth , madnesse , and drunkennesse , shuffled together .  Yes , they doe over-love one another now .  And their Parents as much over-doat upon them , they are all as farre beyond their wits now in loving one another , as they were wide of them before in crossing .  My sides eene ake with laughter .  There I am in some danger , he put me into halfe a beliefe I shall be his heire , pray love shee be not a witch to charme his love from mee . Of what condition is that wench do'st thou know her ?  Hang him rogue , he 'le belye her , and speak better than she deserves , for he 's is love with her too . I saw old Doughty give him a box o' the eare for kissing her , and hee turnd about as he did by thee yesterday , and swore his Aunt should know it .  Wee will all to her to patch vp the businesse , for the respect I beare her husband , noble Generous .  Hearke you Mr. Byblow do you know the lasse within ?  What do you call her , Mal Spencer ?  You doe well to keepe it to your selfe sir .  But stay where 's this houshold ?  This Family of love ? Let 's have them into the revels .  Doe you note this ? Now they are all worse then ever they were , in a contrary vaine : What thinke you of Witchcraft now ?  He 's as much chang'd and bewitcht as they I feare .  No 't is running o' the country severall waies .  But what do you thinke on 't .  O sir forget your anger .  Play fidlers any thing .  Looke you sir , they 'l save you a labour , they are doing it themselves .  Sir you have done a right noble courtesie , which deserves a memory , as long as the name of friendship can beare mention .  'T is true we are so , but you are welcome to the knowledge of our affayres .  That is the businesse , the Seely houshold is divided now .  You know , and cannot but with pitty know  Their miserable condition , how  The good old couple were abus'd , and how  The young abus'd themselves ; if we may say  That any of hem are their selves at all  Which sure we cannot , nor approve them fit  To be their owne disposers , that would give  The governance of such a house and living  Into their Vassailes hands , to thrust them out on 't  VVithout or Law or order , this consider'd  This Gentleman and my selfe have taken home  By faire entreaty , the old folkes to his house ,  The young to mine , untill some wholesome order  By the judicious of the Common-wealth ,  Shall for their persons and estate be taken .  Tom Shakstone , how now , canst tell the newes ?  How prithee ?  Is his haste to goe to bed at afternoone come to this now ?  A ligatory point .  But Parnel , why have you beaten him so grievously ?  What would you have him doe in this case ?  Do you heare this Parnell ?  What shall we stay & see 't .  VVee are much bound to you master Whetstone .  For this great entertainment : I see you command  The house in the absence of your vnkle .  Come , take it as a jest  For presume 't was meant no otherwise .  It is plaine Witchcraft .  Nay since we all are bid unto one feast ,  Le ts fare alike , come shew me mine too .  What then ?  Yes , Robin the groome belonging to this house .  In 's youth I thinke he did .  Here then all anger end ,  Let none be mad at what they cannot mend .  Now from the last nights witchcraft we are freed ,  And I that had not power to cleare my selfe  From base aspersion , am at liberty  For vow'd revenge : I cannot be at peace  ( The night-spell being took of ) till I have met  With noble Mr. Generous : in whose search  The best part of this morning I have spent ,  His wife now I suspect .  O y' are well met , pray tell me how long is 't  Since you were first my Father ?  But that I honour  Thy Master , to whose goodnesse I am bound ,  And still must remaine thankfull , I should prove  VVorse than a Murderer , a meere Paricide  By killing thee my Father .  And you begot me ? oh you us'd me finely last night ?  My worthy friend , but that I honour you  As one to whom I am so much obligd ,  This Villaine could not stirre a foot from hence  Till perisht by my sword .  You may command me ,  If aske me what wrongs , know this Groome pretends  He hath strumpeted my mother , if when , blaz'd  Last night at midnight . If you aske me further  Where , in your own house ; when he pointed to me  As had I been his Bastard .  You tell me wonders .  Since all your words to me are Oracles ,  And such as I most constantly beleeve .  But Sir , shall I be bold and plaine withall ,  I am suspitious all 's not well at home ;  I dare proceed no farther without leave ,  Yet there is something lodged within my breast  Which I am loath to utter .  'T is now apparant  How all the last nights businesse came about ,  In this my late suspicion , is confirm'd .  Make a full stop there Sir , sides , sides , make sides , You know her not as I doe , stand aloofe there Mistresse with your darling Witch , your Nephew too if you please , because though he be no witch , he is a wel-willer to the infernal science .  See how they lay their heads together ?  What doe they say ?  But Gentlemen , shall we try if we can by examination get from them something that may abbreviate the cause unto the wiser in Commission for the peace before wee carry them before 'em .  What say you Granny ?  Who 's that you call ?  He wanted his great fires about him that he has at home . 