 Your Mill quoth he , if ever you take me in your mill againe , I 'le give you leave to cast my flesh to the dogges , and grinde my flesh to pouder , betwixt the Milstones . Cats do you call them , for their hugenesse they might bee cat a mountaines , and for their clawes , I thinke I have it here in red and white to show , I pray looke here sir , a murreine take them , I le be sworne they have scratcht , where I am sure it itcht not .  Yoiu see sir , and what you see , I have felt , & am come to give you to understand I 'le not indure such another night if you would give mee your mill for nothing , they say we Millers are theeves : but I c'ud as soone bee hangd as steale one piece of a nap all the night long , good Landlord provide your selfe of a new tenant , the noise of such catterwawling , & such scratching and clawing , before I would indure againe , I 'le bee tyed to the saile when the winde blowes sharpest , and they flie swiftest , till I be torne into as many fitters as I have toes and fingers .  Over and over , here I utterly renounce it ; nor would I stay in it longer , if you would give me your whole estate ; nay if I say it , you may take my word Landlord .  Mary with all my heart , and I am glad , I am so rid of em .  He was ever an unhappy Boy Sir , and like enough to grow acquainted with him ; and friends may fall out sometimes .  You were best take heed though .  Doe what you please Sir , there 's the Boy stout enough to justifie any thing he has sayd . Now 't is out , he should be my Sonne still by that : Though he was at Death's dore before he would reveale any thing , the damnable jades had so threatned him , and as soone as ever he had told he mended .  For my part I have no reason to hinder any thing that may root them all out ; I have tasted enough of their mischiefe , witnesse my usage i' th Mill , which could be nothing but their Roguerie . One night in my sleepe they set me a stride stark naked a top of my Mill , a bitter cold night too ; 't was day light before I waked , and I durst never speake of it to this houre , because I thought it impossible to be beleeved .  And all last Summer , my wife could not make a bit of butter .  No Sir , we could not make it come , though she and I both together , churn'd almost our harts out , and nothing would come , but all ran into thin waterish geere : the Pigges would not drinke it .  None but one , and he ran out of his wits upon 't , till we bound his head , and layd him a sleepe , but he has had a wry mouth ever since .  In that he was my Sonne .  Till I wondring at his stay , went out and found him in the Trance ; since which time , he has beene haunted and frighted with Goblins , 40. times , and never durst tell any thing ( as I sayd ) because the Hags had so threatned him till in his sicknes he revealed it to his mother .  I was ill handled by them in the Mill . 