 I wonder at your confidence , and how you dare appeare before me .  It is right reverend councell , I thanke you for it , I shall study patience shall I , while you practice waies to begger mee , shall I ?  I have taken your word too often sir and neither can nor will forbeare you longer .  What 's that to you sir ?  What do you bring your spokesman now , your advocat ,  What fee goes out of my estate now , for his Oratory ?  Why , if it grieve you , you may look of ont ,  I have seen more than this twice twenty times ,  And have as often bin deceiv'd by his dissimulations  I can see nothing mended .  Yes , for a new one to morrow .  Wel Sir , you now shall be a Iudge for all your jeering .  Was it a fatherly part thinke you having a sonne  To offer to enter in bonds for his nephew , so to indanger  My estate to redeeme his morgage .  I know it very well , but your dotage had done it ,  If my care had not prevented it .  He does nothing but practice waies to undo himselfe , and me : a very spendthrift , a prodigall sire , hee was at the Ale but tother day , and spent a foure-penny club .  Can you hold your peace sir ? And not long ago at the  Wine he spent his teaster , and two pence to the piper ,  That was brave was it not ?  Your civility have you not ? For no longer agoe than last holiday evening he gam'd away eight double ring'd tokens on a rubbers at bowles with the Curate , and some of his idle companions .  'T were good you would meddle with your own matters sir .  Sir , Sir , as I am not beholden to you for house or Land , for it has stood in the name of my ancestry the Seelyes above two hundred yeares , so will I look you leave all as you found it .  O Lawrence , welcom , Thou wilt make al wel I am sure .  'T was but so , truely Lawrence ; the peevish old man vex't me , for which I did my duty , in telling him his owne , and  Doughty here maintaines him against me .  And I the meat :  I le get choyce musick for the merriment .  I had a Pie that is not open'd yet , I le see what 's in that — live Birds as true as I live , look where they flye !  Feare not you that sir , for look you I obey my Father .  O Father twentie times a day is too little to aske you blessing .  Deare Father .  Now sir , I 'le talke with you , your champions are al gon .  Sir , if a contrite heart strucke through with sence  Of it's sharpe errors , bleeding with remorse  The blacke polluted staine it had conceived  Of foule unnaturall disobedience  May yet by your faire mercy finde Remission ;  You shall upraise a Sonne out o' the gulph  Of horrour and despaire , unto a blisse  That shall for ever crowne your goodnesse , and  Instructive in my after life to serve you ,  In all the duties that be fit a sonne .  Sir I have heard , that Witches apprehended under hands of lawfull authority , doe loose their power ; And all their spels are instantly dissolv'd . 