 Thus wodden yeou doone and I were dead , but while I live yoeu fadge not on it , is this aw the warke yeou confine ?  Dresse me no dressings , lessen I dresse yeou beth , and learne a new lesson with a wainon right now , han I bin a servant here this halfe dozen o'yeares , and con I fee yeou idler then my selve !  Yie , yie , ye shall ye shall , another time , but not naw I thonke yeou , yeou shall as soone pisse and paddle in 't , as slap me in the mouth with an awd Petticoat , or a new paire o  shoine , to be whyet , I cannot be whyet , nor I wonnot be whyet , to see sicky doings I .  VVhat 's the fond wexen waild trow I .  What the Deowl ayles the lymmer lowne , bin thy braines broke lowse trow I .  Awa awaw , sayn yeou this sickerly , or done you but jaum me ?  Awa , awaw .  Awa , awaw .  Awa , awaw , agone .  Whaw , whaw , whaw , whaw !  VVhaw , whaw , whaw , whaw .  VVhaw , whaw , whaw , whaw .  As well as we and taste of every cate :  Is my best Brides Cake come to this ! o wea warth it .  Na , na , I han' swarne , I han' swarne , not a bit afore bed , and look yeou it 's but now dauncing time .  Wy'a , wy'a , awd leove wo no be forgetten , but ay's never be jealous the mare for that .  Whay , whay , what 's here to doe ? Come awaw , and whickly , and see us into our Brayd Chember , & delicatly ludgd togeder , or wee 'l whap you out o'dores i th morne to sijourne in the common , come away .  Ware ever poore mayden betrayed as ay ware unto a swagbellied Carle that cannot aw waw that cannot .  What he ware when he ware a Batchelor , I know better than the best maid i th tawne . I wad I had not .  'T ware that , that cossen'd me , he has not now as he had than ?  For then he could , but now he connot , he connot .  I say agean and agean , hee connot , he connot .  I am not a bit the better for him sin wye ware wad . Cries   Marry sir , and beat him will I into his grave , or backe to the Priest , and be unwaddded agone , for I wonot bee baund to lig with him and live with him the laife of an honest woman for aw the layves good i' Loncoshire .  Ah leear , leear , deell tacke the leear , troist yee and hong yee .  Nay , nay , ay's white casten away ent I be vnwadded agen ▪  And then ine undertack to find 3 better husbands in a bean cod .  Nay mary shan eou not sir , I heare yeou well enogh , & I con the meaning o' the show well enogh , & I stay not the show & see not the show , & ma'one i' the show , let me be honckt up for a show I le ware them to mel or ma with a woman that mels or mae's with a testril a longie , a dow little losell that connot , & if I skim not their skimingtons cockskeam for 't , ma that warplin boggle me a week lonker , & that 's a curse eno' for any wife I tro .  from the boord , and yet for ought I can see I am never a whit the neerer What not one kisse at parting Mal ?  Yie marry Lall , and thus shadden it be , there is nought getten by fawing out , we mun faw in or we get nought .  And we been glad we han it for you .  And thus shan yeou see 't till our deeing houre .  Ween eon leove now for a laife time , the Dewle shonot ha the poore to put us to peeces agone .  Yie marry it were an Inchauntment , and about an houre since it come intill our hearts to doe , what yeou thinke , and we did it .  Marry we take the point , and we casten the point into the fire , and the point spitter'd and spatter'd in the fire , like an it were ( love blesse us ) a laive thing in the faire ; and it hopet and skippet , and riggled , and frisket in the faire , and crept about laike a worme in the faire , that it were warke enough for us both with all the Chimney tooles to keepe it into the faire , and it stinket in the faire , worsen than ony brimstone in the faire .  And this were not above an houre since , and you connot devaise how we han lov'd t'on t'other by now , yeou woud een blisse your seln to see 't .  Yie and weel's laike heane blisse them , they are awas wee l becom'd as none ill had ever beene aneast'hem ; Lo ye , lo ye , as they come .  Yie Lall , and the Witch I knaw , an I prayen yeou goe  me but leave to scrat her well-favorely .  Yeou can blame no honest woman , I trow , to scrat for the thing she leoves . 