 Nay dame ,  Before we play another game .  VVe must a little laugh and thanke  Our feat familiars for the pranck  They playd us last .  'T is right .  Come my Mamilion like a Puggy ,  Now upon the Churles ground  On which we 're met , le ts dance a round ;  That Cocle , Darnell , Poppia wild ,  May choake his graine , and fill the field .  Now let us laugh to thinke upon  The feat which we have so lately done ,  In the distraction we have set  In Seelyes house ; which shall beget  VVonder and sorrow 'mongst our foes ,  VVhilst we make laughter of their woes .  I can but laugh now to foresee ,  The fruits of their perplexity .  I , I , I , the Father to the Sonne doth cry ,  The Sonne rebukes the Father old ;  The Daughter at the mother Scold ,  The wife the husband check and chide ,  But that 's no wonder , through the wide  VVorld 't is common .  Enough , enough ,  Our sides are charm'd , or else this stuffe  VVould laughter-cracke them ; let 's away  About the Iig . we dance to day ,  To spoyle the Hunters sport .  Then list yee well , the Hunters are  This day by vow to kill a Hare ,  Or else the sport they will forsweare ;  And hang their Dogs up .  There will I be , and like a wily VVat ,  Vntill they put me up ; I le squat .  All the doubt can be but this ,  That if by chance of me they misse ,  And start another Hare .  And I you Gilian by your gaunt thin gut .  But where will Mawd bestow her selfe today ?  'T is come , 't is come .  Some  Delay hath kept it , now 't is here ,  For bottles next of wine and beere ,  The Merchants cellers they shall pay for 't .  What Beast was by thee hither rid ?  And I bestrid  A Porcupine that never prickt .  Some Musicke then i th aire  Whilest thus by paire and paire ,  We nimbly foot it ; strike .  Enough , enough , now part ,  To see the brides vext heart ,  The bridegroomes too and all ,  That vomit up their gall  For lacke o' th wedding chere .  No following further , yonder horsemen come ,  In vaine is our pursuit , let 's breake up court .  But when ?   To horse , to horse .  2.  VVhere 's my Mamilian .  1.  And my Mamilian .  3.  My Tyger to bestri'd . 