 O you speake this ,  Because a Hare hath crost you .  She might find some Muse as then not visible to us ,  And escape that way .  Come , come , all men  Were never of one minde , nor I of yours .  That was with Master Generous .  A Character not common in this age .  He hath spy'd us , there is no way to evade him .  Dainty Mr. Whetstone .  I thinke you are a Witch Master Whetstone .  It seemes then your Mother was rather a yong wanton wench , than an old wither'd witch .  And so intyre us to you .  Are these then the best parts he can boast of ?  You name him in good time , see where he comes .  Wherein good sir .  O sir you may command us .  You write Sir like your selfe .  I say the pide dog shall outstrip the browne .  Yes when hee 's at his lap you le take his part .  He talks so like an Asse I have not patience to indure his non sence .  Of what ?  Well sir , I take ●ou : will you cover these , give them into the hands of either of those two gentlemen .  And weigh alike : both many graines too light .  More then you shed the last fall of the leafe .  To finde out birds nests   It is thought you came into the World that way .  Because you are a bastard .  And thou art base all over .  I was in a cold sweat ready to faint  The time he staid amongst us .  And I .  And young Gregory and his sister doe as much overdoe their obedience now to their Parents .  But the married couple that are both so daintily whitled , that now they are both mad to be a bed before Supper-time , and by and by he will , and she wo' not ; streight she will and he wo' not , the next minute they both forget they are married , and defie one another .  Who would ha' thought that impudent rogue would have come among us after such a baffle .  Here he comes .  The knot 's untied , and this is another change .  Every one a severall tune   Now Gentlemen , you seeme very serious .  How does thine Vncle and Aunt , Gregory and his sister , the Families of Seelyes agree yet , can you tell ?  How so I pray ?  But what becomes of Lawrénce and his Parnell ?  The lusty couple , what doe they now ?  At whose suit I prithee is Don Skimington come to towne .  For want of bedstaves ?  Alas poore Lawrence .  But has she beaten him ?  She would never talke so else   O by all means Gent.   In some discourse .  Now master Whetstone you reflect on me .  'T is true , at our last meeting some few words  Then past my lips , which I could wish forgot :  I thinke I call'd you Bastard .  You are merrie with your friends , good master By-Blow , and wee are guests here in your Vnckles house , and therefore priviledged .  Why , who shall shew him ?  Why , I would see my father .  Yes well , a pedant in my fathers house .  Who beeing young , taught me my A , B , C.   I am abused .  This cannot be indur'd .  I le out o' the Country , and as soone live in Lapland as Lancashire hereafter .  No , but I am afflicted to thinke that the divell should have power to put such a trick upon us , to countenance a Rascal , that is one .  Why doe you thinke there 's any wise folks of the quality ; Can any but fooles be drawne into a Covenant with the greatest enemy of mankind ? yet J cannot thinke that VVhetstone is the Witch ? The young Queane that was at the Wedding was i' th house yee know .  The world 's well mended here ; we cannot but rejoyce to see this , Lawrence .  Why now all 's right and straight and as it should be .  What Parnell ?  This is wonderfull as all the rest .  'T is wondrous well .  This sounds well .  And cannot but rejoyce to see the remedy so neere at hand .  You are beholden Sir to Master Generous in behalfe of your Nephew for saving his land from forfeiture in time of your distraction .  They call their Spirits I thinke .  Speake Boy doe you know these Creatures , women I dare not call 'em ?  Hold Parnell .  Why doe not you follow Mr. By-blow . I thanke your  Aunt for the tricke she would have father'd us withall .  Y' are a kinde Kinsman . 