 But why in such hast good Robin ?  Hee shall not chide thee , feare it not .  Well Robert , I find your love by your haste from me , I le undertake you shal be at Lancaster , & twise as far , & yet at home time enough , and be rul'd by me .  You shall see more than that presently , because you shall beleeve me ; you know the house is all a bed here : and I dare not be mist in the morning . Besides , I must be at the wedding of Lawrence and Parnell to morrow .  I care not for the losse of him , but if I fit him not hang me : but to the point , if I goe with you to night , and help you to as good wine as your master desires , and you keepe your time with him , you will give me a pinte for my company .  I 'le but take up my milk payle and leave it in the field , till our comming backe in the morning , and wee 'll away .  No Robert , rather than leave your company so long , it shall come to me .  Looke yonder , what do you thinke on 't .  Looke you sir , heere I have it , will you get up and away .  Looke againe .  Yours was too short to carrie double such a journey .  Get up I say , you shall have your owne againe i' th morning .  Nay , and you stand butting now , I 'le leave you to look your horse . Payle on afore to the field , and staie till I come .  My nose ! Nothing sir . —  turnes about  — Yet mee thought a flie toucht it . Did you see any thing ?  Ha , ha ha .  To thinke this Bridegroome should once ha' bin mine , but he shall rue it , I le hold him this point on 't , and that 's all I care for him .  Looke you Mr. Bridegroome , what my care provides for you   Yes put it in your pocket it may stand you instead anon , when all your points be tane away , to trusse up your trinkits , I meane your slopes withall .  This is mother Iohnson and Gooddy Dickisons roguerie , I finde it but I cannot helpe it , yet I will have musicke : sir there 's a Piper withour , would be glad to earne money .  A second course .  As chiefe .  Of Doughtyes Surloine of rost Beefe .  That 's Butter , Milk , Whey , Curds and Cheese ,  Wee nothing by the bargaine leese .  The dull sides of a Beare I kickt .  I know how you rid Lady Nan ,  We are obeyd .  My Puggie .  Of this the meaning   My Spirit and my selfe command ;  Mamillion , & the rest at hand , shall all assist .  Now say what 's next ?  Yes .  On horseback yet ,  Now lighting from her Broome-staffe .  Entred the Mill already .  As sencelesse as a Dormouse .  I will , and scape him if I can ; by this accident all must come out , and here 's no stay for me  Againe , stay you here with your Aunt , and I le goe let in your Vncle .  Pray , by your leave Sir ,  Your wife is taken with a suddaine qualme  She hath sent me for a Doctor .  Ha , ha , ha .  And I , other confession you get none from us .  Well Rogue I may live to ride in a Coach before I come to the Gallowes yet . 