 Gentlemen , Welcome , t' is a word I use ,  From me expect no further complement :  Nor do I name it often at one meeting ,  Once spoke ( to those that understand me best ,  And know I alwaies purpose as I speake )  Hath ever yet suffiz'd : so iet it you ;  Nor doe I love that common phrase of guests ,  As we make bold , or we are troublesome ,  Wee take you unprovided , and the like ;  I know you understanding Gentlemen ,  And knowing me , cannot persuade your selves  With me you shall be troublesome or bold ,  But still provided for my worthy friends ,  Amongst whom you are lifted .  And Gentlemen , such plainnesse doth best please me , I had notice  Of so much by my kinsman , and to show  How lovingly I tooke it , instantly  Rose from my chayre to meet you at the gate .  And be my selfe your usher ; nor shall you finde  Being set to meat , that I 'le excuse your fare ,  Or say , I am sory it falls out so poore ;  And had I knowne your comming wee 'd have had  Such things and such , nor blame my Cooke , to say  This dish or that hath not bin sauc'st with care :  Words , fitting best a common Hostesse mouth ,  When ther 's perhaps some just cause of dislike  But not the table of a Gentleman ;  Nor is it my wives custome ; in a word , take what you find , & so   In that you please me not : But Gentlemen  I hope to be beholden unto you all ,  Which if I proove , I le be a gratefull debtor .  I ever studied plainenesse , and truth withall .  In few I shall . I know this youth to whom my wife is Aunt  Is ( as you needs must finde him ) weake and shallow :  Dull , as his name , and what for kindred sake  We note not , or at least , are loath to see ,  Is unto such well-knowing Gentlemen  Most grossely visible : If for my sake  You will but seeme to winke at these his wants ,  At least at table before us his friends ,  I shall receive it as a courtesie  Not soone to be forgot .  Now when you please pray Enter Gentlemen .  I' th meane time  Prepare your stomackes with a bowle of Sacke .  My Cellar can affoord it ; now Mr. Arthur  Pray freely speake your thoughts .  Wast not about  A Mannor , the best part of your estate ,  Morgag'd to one slips no advantages  Which you would have redeem'd .  And as I thinke , I promist at that time  To become bound with you , or if the usurer  ( A base , yet the best title I can give him )  Perhaps should question that security ,  To have the money ready . Wast not so ?  Provided , to have the Writings in my custody .  Else how should I secure mine owne estate .  Your monie 's ready ,  Make then your word good  By speaking it no further , onely this ,  It seemes your Vncle you trusted in so far  Hath failed your expectation .  Why I intreat you .  Strange , but how ?  Can you discourse the manner ?  How thinke you might this come .  They that thinke so dreame ,  For my beliefe is , no such thing can be ,  A madnesse you may call it : Dinner stayes ;  That done , the best part of the afternoone  Wee 'le spend about your businesse .  At meeting , and at parting Gentlemen ,  I onely make use of that generall word ,  So frequent at all feasts , and that but once ; y' are welcome .  You are so , all of you , and I intreat you  Take notice of that speciall businesse ,  Betwixt this Gentleman my friend , and I .  About the Morgage , to which writings drawne ,  Your hands are witnesse .  Pray take no notice of his ignorance ,  You know what I foretold you .  I pray , no complement ,  It is a thing I doe not use my selfe ,  Nor doe I love 't in others .  Sir , you Hyperbolize ;  And I coo'd chide you for 't , but whil'st you connive  At this my Kinsman , I shall winke at you ;  'T wil prove an equall match .  Your name proclaimes  To be such as it speakes , you , Generous .  Still in that straine !  Gentlemen , the greatest part of this day you see is spent  In reading deeds , conveyances , and bonds ,  VVith sealing and subscribing ; will you now  Take part of a bad Supper .  The first I accept ,  The Last I entertaine not , farewell Gentlemen .  Cozen I wish you would consort your selfe ,  With such men ever , and make them your President ,  For a more Gentile carriage .  Robin .  Goe call your Mistresse hither .  Why she 's not deafe I hope , I am sure since Dinner  She had her hearing perfect .  Sirrah you trifle , give me the Key o th' Stable ,  I will goe see my Gelding ; i' th' meane time  Goe seeke her out , say she shall finde me there .  Ha! how comes that to passe ?  Which of your fellowes did she take along to wayte on her ?  None ! hath she us'd it often ?  And still alone ?  But what times hath she sorted for these journeyes ?  To ride out often and alone , what sayth she  When she takes horse , and at her backe returne ?  I know her a good woman and well bred ,  Of an unquestion'd carriage , well reputed  Amongst her neighbors , reckon'd with the best  And ore me most indulgent ; though in many  Such things might breed a doubt and jealousie ,  Yet I hatch no such phrensie . Yet to prevent  The smallest jarre that might betwixt us happen ;  Give her no notice that I know thus much .  Besides I charge thee , when she craves him next  He be deny'd : if she be vext or mov'd  Doe not thou feare , I le interpose my selfe  Betwixt thee and her anger , as you tender  Your duty and my service , see this done .  As oft as thou deny'st her , so oft clayme  That teaster from me , 't shall be roundly payd .  So much for that . Sirrah my Butler tels me  My Seller is drunke dry , I meane those Bottles  Of Sack and Claret , are all empty growne  And I have guests to morrow , my choyse friends .  Take the gray Nag i' th' stable , and those Bottles  Fill at Lancaster ,  There where you use to fetch it .  O Robin , it comes short of that pure liquor  We drunke last Terme in London at the Myter  In Fleet-street , thou remembrest it ; me thought  It was the very spirit of the Grape ,  Meere quintessence of Wine .  What then ? But vaine are wishes , take those bottles  And see them fil'd where I command you sir .  Go hasten your return , what he hath told me  Touching my wife is somewhat strange , no matter  Bee 't as it will , it shall not trouble me .  Shee hath not lyen so long so neere my side ,  That now I should be jealous .  Though I could tax you friend , & justly too  For begging 'gainst the Statute in that name ,  Yet I have ever bin of that compassion ,  Where I see want , rather to pittie it  Than to use power . Where hast thou serv'd ?  It shall not need . What Countreyman .  Perhaps thou lov'st this wandring life  To be an idle loitering begger , than  To eat of thine owne labour .  Friend thou speakest well .  How cam'st thou in this pickle ?  Well spoke Souldier .  I like thy resolution . Fellow , you then  Have given the Mill quite over .  I dare , but I am loth , my reasons these .  For many moneths , scarce any one hath lien there  But have bin strangely frighted in his sleepe ,  Or from his warme bed drawne into the floore ,  Or clawd and scratcht , as thou seest this poore man ,  So much , that it stood long untenanted ,  Till he late undertooke it , now thine eies  Witnesse how he hath sped .  'T is a match : deliver them .  I confesse thou hast done a Wonder in fetching me so good Wine , but my good Servant Robert , goe not about to put a Myracle upon me , I will rather beleeve that Lancaster affords this Wine , which I thought impossible till I tasted it , then that thou coo'dst in one night fetch it from London .  Th' art a Knave to wish me to beleeve this , forgi'me , I would have sworne if thou had'st stayd but time answerable for the journey ( to his that flew to Paris and back to London in a day ) it had been the same Wine , but it can never fall within the compasse of a Christians beleefe , that thou cou'dst ride above three hundred miles in 8. houres : You were no longer out , and upon one Horse too , and in the Night too !  And fill thy bottles too , and come home halfe drunke too , for so thou art , thou wouldst never a had such a fancy else !  O are you so ! and why have you abus'd me and your selfe then all this while , to glorifie the Myter in Fleet-street ?  I sayd , and I say againe , if I were within ten mile of London , I durst sweare that this was Myter Wine , and drawn by honest Iacke Paine .  Ha , ha , ha , if I coo'd beleeve there were such a thing as Witchcraft , I should thinke this slave were bewitch'd now with an opinion .  Nay be not angry Robin , we must not part so , and how does my honest Drawer ? ha , ha , ha ; and what newes at London , Robin ? ha , ha , ha ; but your stay was so short I think you coo'd heare none , and such your haste home that you coo'd make none : is 't not so Robin ? ha , ha , ha , what a strange fancy has good Wine begot in his head ?  Come on , now let me heare .  VVhat shall we heare now ?  Blesse me ! this paper belongs to me indeed , 't is an acquittance , and all I have to show for the payment of one hundred pound , I tooke great care for 't , and coo'd not imagine where or how I might loose it , but why may not this bee a tricke ? this Knave may finde it when I lost it , and conceale it till now to come over me withall . I will not trouble my thoughts with it further at this time , well Robin looke to your businesse , and have a care of my Guelding .  I see what Man is loath to entertaine ,  Offers it selfe to him most frequently ,  And that which we most covet to embrace ,  Doth seldome court us , and proves most averse ;  For I , that never coo'd conceive a thought  Of this my woman worthy a rebuke ,  ( As one that in her youth bore her so fairely  That she was taken for a seeming Saint )  To render me such just occasion ,  That I should now distrust her in her age ;  Distrust ! I cannot , that would bring me in  The poore aspersion of fond jealousie ;  VVhich even from our first meeting I abhorr'd .  The Gentile fashion sometimes we observe  To sunder beds ; but most in these hot monthes  Iune , Iuly August , so we did last night .  Now I ( as ever tender of her health )  And therefore rising early as I use ,  Entring her Chamber to bestow on her  A custom'd Visite ; finde the Pillow swell'd ,  Vnbruis'd with any weight , the sheets unruffled ,  The Curtaines neither drawne , nor bed layd down ;  Which showes , she slept not in my house to night .  Should there be any contract betwixt her  And this my Groome , to abuse my honest trust ;  I should not take it well , but for all this  Yet cannot I be jealous . Robin —  Is my horse safe , lusty , and in good plight ?  What , feeds he well ?  When was he rid last ?  Sirrah , take heed I finde you not a Knave ,  Have you not lent him to your Mistresse late ?  So late as this last Night ?  Then I shall finde him where I left him last .  Give me the Key o' th Stable .  Sirrah , your Mistresse was abroad all night ,  Nor is she yet come home , if there I finde him not ,  I shall finde thee , what to this present houre  I never did suspect ; and I must tell theee  Will not be to thy profit .  Yes , I have .  Y' are a sawcy Groome to receive horses  Into my Stable , and not aske me leave .  Is 't for my profit to buy Hay and Oates  For every strangers jades ?  Sirrah , whose jade is that ty'd to the Racke ?  Yes , that old Mare .  A beast thou art to tell me so , hath the wine  Not yet left working ? not the Myter wine ?  That made thee to beleeve VVitcheraft ?  Prithee perswade me ,  To be a drunken Sot like to thy selfe ;  And not to know mine owne .  Sirrah , I feare some stolne jade of your owne  That you would have me keepe .  The divell she did !  VVell Robert , for this once I le play the Groome ,  And doe your office for you .  My blood is turn'd to Ice , and my all vitals  Have ceas'd their working ! dull stupidity  Surpriseth me at once , and hath arrested  That vigorous agitation ; VVhich till now  Exprest a life within me : I me thinks  Am a meere Marble statue , and no man ;  Vnweave my age O time , to my first thread ;  Let me loose fiftie yeares in ignorance spent :  That being made an infant once againe ,  I may begin to know , what ? or where am I  To be thus lost in wonder .  Amazement still pursues me , how am I chang'd  Or brought ere I can understand my selfe ,  Into this new VVorld .  This makes me beleeve all , I any thing ;  And that my selfe am nothing : prithee Robin  Lay me to my selfe open , what art thou ,  Or this new transform'd Creature ?  Tell me the Earth  Shall leave it's seat , and mount to kisse the Moone ;  Or that the Moone enamour'd of the Earth ,  Shall leave her spheare , to stoope to us thus low .  VVhat ? what 's this in my hand , that at an instant  Can from a foure leg'd Creature , make a thing  So like a wife ?  A Bridle , hence inchantment ,  A Viper were more safe within my hand  Then this charm'd Engine  A Witch ! my wife a Witch !  The more I strive to unwinde  My selfe from this Meander , I the more  Therein am intricated ; prithee woman  Art thou a Witch ?  Keep aloofe , and doe not come too neare me , O my trust ;  Have I since first I understood my selfe ,  Bin of my soule so charie , still to studie  What best was for it's health , to renounce all  The workes of that black Fiend with my best force  And hath that Serpent twin'd me so about ,  That I must lye so often and so long  With a Divell in my bosome !  Pardon ! Can such a thing as that be hop'd ?  Lift up thine eyes ( lost woman ) to yon Hils ;  It must be thence expected : look not down  Vnto that horrid dwelling , which thou hast sought  At such deare rate to purchase , prithee tell me ,  ( For now I can beleeve ) art thou a Witch ?  VVith that word I am thunderstrooke ,  And know not what to answer , yet resolve me  Hast thou made any contract with that Fiend  The Enemy of Mankind ?  What ? and how farre ?  Ten thousand times better thy Body had  Bin promis'd to the Stake , I and mine too ,  To have suffer'd with thee in a hedge of flames :  Then such a compact ever had bin made . Oh —  Resolve me , how farre doth that contract stretch ?  O cunning Divell , foolish woman know  Where he can clayme but the least little part ,  He will usurpe the whole ; thou art a lost woman .  Why hast thou any hope ?  Make it appeare to me .  I would see some of them .  May I presum 't ?  Know'st thou what a VVitch is ?  Tell me , are those teares  As full of true hearted penitence ,  As mine of sorrow , to behold what state  What desperate state th' art falne in .  Rise , and as I doe , so heaven pardon me ;  We all offend , but from such falling off ,  Defend us . Well , I doe remember wife ,  When I first tooke thee , 't was for good and bad ;  O change thy bad to good , that I may keep thee ,  As then we past our faiths , till Death us sever .  I will not aggravate thy griefe too much ,  By Needles iteration : Robin hereafter  Forget thou hast a tongue , if the least Syllable  Of what hath past be rumour'd , you loose me ;  But if I finde you faithfull , you gaine me ever .  O woman thou had'st need to weepe thy selfe  Into a fountaine , such a penitent spring  As may have power to quench invisible flames  In which my eyes shall ayde ; too little all ,  If not too little , all 's forgiven , forgot ;  Only thus much remember , thou had'st extermin'd  Thy selfe out of the blest society  Of Saints and Angels , but on thy repentance  I take thee to my Bosome , once againe ,  My wife , sister , and daughter : saddle my Gelding ,  Some businesse that may hold me for two dayes  Calls me aside .  Robin , the last night that I lodgd at home  My Wife ( if thou remembrest ) lay abroad ,  But no words of that .  I rose thus early much before my houre ,  To take her in her bed ; 'T is yet not five :  The Sunne scarce up . Those horses take and lead 'em  Into the Stable , see them rubb'd and drest ,  We have rid hard . Now in the interim I  Will step and see how my new Miller fares ,  Or whether he slept better in his charge ,  Than those which did precede him .  But one thing more —  Pray what 's the matter Sir ?  How hath he wrong'd you ?  Be of a milder temper I intreat ,  Relate what and when done ?  I know you Mr. Arthur , for a Gentleman  Of faire endowments , a most solid braine ,  And setled understanding . Why this fellow  These two dayes was scarce sundred from my side ,  And for the last night I am most assur'd  He slept within my Chamber , 12. miles off ,  We have nere parted since .  Keepe it there ,  I pray doe a season ( O my feares )  Y' are well met here , I am told you oft frequent  This house as my Wives choyse companion ,  Yet have I seldome seene you .  But that labour I le save you , Soldier take her to your charge .  And now where 's this sicke woman .  'T is almost time she did , speake how is 't wife  My Nephew tels me you were tooke last night  With a shrewd sicknesse , which this Mayde confirmes .  In company there 's comfort , prithee wife  Lend me thy hand , and let me feele thy pulse ,  Perhaps some Feaver , by their beating I  May guesse at thy disease .  A dangerous sicknes , and I feare t death ,  'T is oddes you will not scape it . Take that backe  And let me prove the t'other , if perhaps  I there can finde more comfort .  I must not be deny'd ,  Sick folkes are peevish , and must be ore-rul'd , and so shall you .  If not thy hand Wife , shew me but thy wrist ,  And see how this will match it , here 's a Testate  That cannot be out-fac'd .  My heart hath bled more for thy curst relapse  Than drops hath issu'd from thy wounded arme .  But wherefore should I preach to one past hope ?  Or where the divell himselfe claimes right in all ,  Seeke the least part or interest ? Leave your Bed ,  Vp , make you ready ; I must deliver you  Into the hand of Iustice . O deare friend  It is in vaine to guesse at this my griefe  'T is so inundant . Soldier take away that young  But old in mischiefe .  And being of these Apostat's rid so well ,  I le see my house no more be made a Hell .  Away with them .  I pittyed then your misery , and now  Have nothing left but to bewayle mine owne  In this unhappy woman .  I utterly discard him in her blood  And all the good that I intended him  I will conferre upon this vertuous Gentleman .  No sir , my Prayers for her soules recovery .  Shall not be wanting to her , but mine eyes  Must never see her more . 