 You seeme sir a Gentleman of quality , and no doubt but in your youth have beene acquainted with affaires military , in your very lookes there appeares bounty , and in your person humanity . Please you to vouchsafe the tender of some small courtesie to help to beare a souldier into his countrey .  With the Russian against the Polack , a heavy war , and hath brought me to this hard fate . I was tooke prisoner by the Pole , & after some few weeks of durance , got both my freedom and passe . I have it about me to show , please you to vouchsafe the perusall .  Yorkeshire sir . Many a sharp battell by land , and many a sharpe storme at sea , many a long mile , and many a short meale , I have travel'd and suffer'd ere I c'ud reach thus far , I beseech you sir take my poore & wretched case into your worships noble consideration .  I sir ! Loitering I defie sir , I hate lazinesse as I do leprosie : It is the next way to breed the scurvie , put mee to hedge , ditch , plow , thresh , dig , delve , any thing : your worship shal find that I love nothing lesse than loitering .  I was a Miller my selfe before I was a souldier . What one of my own trade should be so poorely spirited frighted with cats ?  Sir trust me with the Mill that he forsakes .  Here is a blade that hangs upon this belt  That spight of all these Rats , Cats , Wezells , Witches  Or Dogges , or Divels , Shall so coniure them  I 'le quiet my possession .  I pray sir dare you trust your mill with me .  Give me the keies , I le stand it all danger .  These two nights I have slept well and heard no noise  Of Cats , or Rats ; most sure the fellow dream't ,  And scratcht himselfe in 's sleep . I have traveld' Desarts ,  Beheld Wolves , Beares , and Lyons : Indeed what not ?  Of horrid shape ; And shall I be afrayd  Of Cats in mine owne Country ? I can never  Grow so Mouse-hearted . It is now a Calme  And no winde stirring , I can beare no sayle ;  Then best lye downe to sleepe . Nay rest by me  Good Morglay , my Comrague and Bedfellow  That never fayl'd me yet ; I know thou did'st not .  If I be wak'd , see thou be stirring too ;  Then come a Gib as big as Ascapart  VVe 'l make him play at Leap-frog . A brave Souldiers lodging ,  The floore my Bed , a Milstone for my Pillow ,  The Sayles for Curtaynes . So good night .  Am I in Hell , then have among'st you divels ;  This side , and that side , what behinde , before ?  I le keep my face unscratch'd dispight you all :  What , doe you pinch in private , clawes I feele  But can see nothing , nothing pinch me thus ?  Have at you then , I and have at you still ;  And stil have at you .  One of them I have pay'd  In leaping out o th' hole a foot or eare  Or something I have light on . What all gone ?  All quiet ? not a Cat that 's heard to mew ?  Nay then I le try to take another nap ,  Though I sleepe with mine eyes open .  And I sliced off a Cats foot there , that is since a hand , who ever wants it . 