 Nay but vnderstand me neighbor Doughty .  Alas he is my childe .  You do not know what an only son is , O see , he comes now if you can appease his anger toward me , you shall doe an act of timely charity .  O sonne be patient .  If ever I trangresse in the like againe —  O this is not the way .  This is to raise Impatience into fury .  I do not seek his quiet for my ease ,  I can beare all his chidings and his threats ,  And take them well , very exceeding well ,  And finde they do me good on my owne part ,  Indeed they do reclaim me from those errors  That might impeach his fortunes , but I feare  Th unquiet strife within him hurts himselfe ,  And wastes or weakens Nature , by the breach  Of moderate sleepe and dyet ; and I can  No lesse than grieve to finde my weaknesses  To be the cause of his affliction ,  And see the danger of his health and being .  All shall be mended son content your selfe ,  But this time forget but this last fault .  But I did it not sonne ?  'T is gone and past sonne .  Truely we were civily merry . But I have left it .  Sonne , sonne .  Prethee good Lawrence be gentle and do not fright thy Master so .  I will bespeake the Guests .  COme away wife , come away , and let us be ready to breake the Cake over the Brides head at her entrance ; we will have the honour of it , we that have playd the Steward and Cooke at home , though we lost Church by 't , and saw not Parson Knit-knot doe his office , but wee shall see all the house rites perform'd ; and . — oh what a day of jollity and tranquility is here towards ?  I feare nothing , and I hope to dye in this humor .  I le fetch a Cup of Sack Wife —  Here , here sweet-heart , they are lóng me thinks a comming , the Bels have rung out this halfe houre , harke now the wind brings the sound of them sweetly againe .  I fack they doe , sure the greatest fire in the Parish is in our Kitchin , and there 's no harme done yet , no 't is some merry conceit of the stretch-ropes the Ringers , now they have done , and now the Wedding comes , hearke , the Fidlers and all , now have I liv'd to see a day , come , take our stand , and be ready for the Bride-cake , which we will so cracke and crumble upon her crowne : o they come , they come .  Bridegroome Lawrence eke ,  In you before , for we this cake must breake .  Over the Bride —  Forgi' me - what 's become  O' th' Cake wife !  Gentlemen , will it please you draw neere , the guests are now all come , and the house almost full , meat 's taken up .  But sonne Gregory , Nephew Arthur , and the rest of the young Gentlemen , I shall take it for a favor if you will ( it is an office which very good Gentlemen doe in this Country ) accompane the Bridegroome in serving the meat .  Nay neighbor Doughty , your yeares shall excuse you .  VVell fare your hearts , — the dresser calls in Gentlemen ,  'T is a busie time , yet will I review the Bill of fare , for this dayes dinner — ( Reades ) for 40 . people of the best quality , 4. messes of meat ; viz. a leg of Mutton in plum-broth , a dish of Marrow-bones , a Capon in white-broth , a Surlovne of beefe , a Pig , a Goose , a Turkie , and two Pyes : for the second course , to every messe 4.  Chickens in a dish , a couple of Rabbets , Custard , Flawn , Florentines , and stewd pruines , — all very good Country fare , and for my credit , —  The service enters , O well sayd Musicke , play up the meat to the Table till all be serv'd in , I le see it passe in answer to my bill .  Inprime , a leg of Mutton in plum-broth , — how now Mr. Bridegroome , what carry you ?  A stone , 't is horne man .  It was Mutton , but now 't is the horns on 't .  And I will bid you welcome .  Gentlemen will you in ?  Goe too you are a rascall : and you houswife teach your daughter better manners : I 'le ship you all for new England els .  But for your sake I 'le forbeare them , and beare with any thing this day .  Now good son , wife , and daughter , let me intreat you be not angry .  Enough , enough , good boy , 't is most apparant  We all have had our errors , and as plainly  It now appeares , our judgments , yea our reason  Was poyson'd by some violent infection ,  Quite contrary to Nature .  I feare it was by Witchcraft : for I now  ( Blest be the power that wrought the happy means  Of my delivery ) remember that  Some 3. months since I crost a way ward woman  ( One that I now suspect ) for bearing with  A most unseemly disobedience ,  In an untoward ill-bred sonne of hers ,  When with an ill looke and an hollow voyce  She mutter'd out these words . Perhaps erelong  Thy selfe shalt be obedient to thy sonne .  She has play'd her pranke it seemes .  If it be so , then at this happy houre ,  The Witch is tane that over us had power .  Gentlemen welcome to my best friends house ,  You know the unhappy cause that drew me hether .  Sir , we doe find that we have reason enough to thank you for your Neighbourly and pious care of us .  I will acknowledge it most thankfully .  O Mr. Generous , the noble favour you have shew'd  My Nephew for ever bindes me to you .  Good Mistresse Generous —  How I and all my family have suffered you all know .  And I praise heaven for you that were the means to it . 