 Daughter I say .  Daughter I say , I wil take any course so thou wilt leave thy passion ; indeed it hurts thee childe , I 'le sing and be merry , weare as fine clothes , and as delicate dressings as thou wilt have me , so thou wilt pacifie thy selfe , and be at peace with me .  Ha , ha , ha ! she 's overcome with joy at my conversion .  There was a deft Lad and a Lasse fell in love ,  with a fa la la , fa la la , Langtidowne dilly ;  With kissing and toying this Maiden did prove ,  with a fa la la , fa la la , Langtidowne dilly ;  So wide i' th wast , and her Belly so high ,  That unto her mother the Maiden did cry ,  O Langtidowne dilly , O Langtidowne dilly ,  fa la la Langtidowne , Langtidowne dilly .  I 'le dresse the dinner , though I drip my sweat .  You are so frolick and so cranck now , upon the truce is taken amongst us , because our wrangling shall not wrong the Wedding , but take heed ( you were best ) how ye behave your selfe , lest a day to come may pay for all .  Oh how hot am I ! rather then I would dresse such another dinner this twelve moneth , I would wish Wedding quite out of this yeares Almanack .  How brag he is of his liberty , but the holy day carries it .  They ring backwards me thinks .  Welcome Bride Parnell .  O husband , O guests , O sonne , O Gentlemen , such a chance in a Kitchin was never heard of , all the meat is flowne out o' the chimney top I thinke , and nothing instead of it , but Snakes , Bates , Frogs , Beetles , Hornets , and Humble-bees ; all the Sallets are turn'd to Iewes-eares , Mushromes , and Puck fists ; and all the Custards into Cow sheards !  Nay sir if you please to stay , now that the many are frighted away , I have some good cold meates , and halfe a dozen bottles of VVine .  And we are all at this instant as well and as sensible of our former errors , as you can wish us to be .  Yes Sir .  Yes sir .  Yes I will teach her manners , or put her out to spin two penny tow : so you deare husband will but take mee into favor : I 'le talke with you dame when the strangers are gone .  Indeed childe , I le do so no more .  Enough Childe , thou art mine and all is well . 