 Now I have gathered Bullies , and fild my bellie pretty well , I 'le goe see some sport . There are gentlemen coursing in the medow hard by ; and 't is a game that I love better than going to Schoole ten to one .  What have we here a brace of Greyhounds broke loose from their masters : it must needs be so , for they have both their Collers and slippes about their neckes . Now I looke better upon them , me thinks I should know them , and so I do : these are Mr. Robinsons dogges , that dwels some two miles off , I 'le take them up , & lead them home to their master ; it may be somthing in my way , for he is as liberall a gentleman , as any is in our countrie , Come Hector , come . Now if I c'ud but start a Hare by the way , kill her , and carry her home to my supper , I should thinke I had  made a better afternoones worke of it than gathering of bullies . Come poore curres along with me .  When you had put your self into a dogs skin , I pray how c'ud I help it ; but gammer are not you a Witch ? if you bee , I beg upon my knees you will not hurt me .  I le have none of your money gammer , because you are a Witch : and now she is out of her foure leg'd shape , I le see if with my two legs I can out-run her .  But Gammer what do you meane to do with me  Now you have me ?  Not I gammer indeed la , I dare not stay on t late , My father is a fell man , and if I bee out long , will both chide and beat me .  The boy is vanisht , and I can see nothing in his stead  But a white horse redie sadled and bridled .  Help , help .  Thanks my sweet Mall for thy courteous entertainment , thy creame , thy cheese-cakes , and every good thing , this , this , & this for all .  Thanke you .  Meat lie there , for thou hast no taste , and drinke there , for thou hast no relish , for in neither of them is there either salt or savour .  Now whilest they are in their jollitie , and do not mind me , I le steale away , and shift for my selfe , though I lose my life for 't .  Yes Sir , and he asked me where I dwelt , and what my name was .  But it was in a quarrelsome way ; VVhereupon I was as stout , and ask'd him who made him an examiner ?  He told me he would know or beat it out of me ,  And I told him he should not , and bid him doe his worst ;  And to 't we went .  VVe fought a quarter of an houre , till his sharpe nailes made my eares bleed .  I wondred to finde him so strong in my hands , seeming but of mine owne age and bignesse , till I looking downe , perceived he had clubb'd cloven feet like Oxe feet ; but his face was as young as mine .  But I was afraid of his feet , and ran from him towards a light that I saw , and when I came to it , it was one of the VVitches in white upon a Bridge , that scar'd me backe againe , and then met me the Boy againe , and he strucke me and layd mee for dead .  Yes Sir , and saw them all in the Barne together , and many more at their Feast and Witchery . 