 Sir .  My Mistresse Sir , I doe call her Mistresse , as I doe call you Master , but if you would have me call my Mistresse to my Master , I may call lowd enough before she can heare me .  And so she may have at Supper too for ought I know , but I can assure you she is not now within my call .  To tell you true sir , I shall neither finde my Mistresse here , nor you your Gelding there .  Whilst you were busie about your writings , she came and commanded me to saddle your Beast , and sayd she would ride abroad to take the ayre .  None sir .  Oftner I am sure then she goes to Church , and leave out Wednesdayes and Fridayes .  If you call that alone , when no body rides in her company .  Commonly when you are abroad , and sometimes when you are full of businesse at home .  Onely conjures me that I shall keepe it from you , then clappes me in the fist with some small piece of silver , and then a  Fish cannot be more silent then I .  Now you have exprest your minde , I know what I have to doe ; first , not to tell her what I have told you & , next to keep her side-saddle from comming upon your Gueldings backe ; but how soever it is like to hinder me of many a round tester .  You say well in that sir , I dare take your word , you are an honest Gentleman , and my Master ; and now take mine as I am your true servant , before she shall backe your Guelding again in your absence , while I have the charge of his keeping ; she shall ride me , or I le ride her .  Good newes for me , I shall sir .  Yes sir , I so remember it , that most certaine it is I never shal forget it , my mouth waters ever since when I but think on 't , whilst you were at supper above , the drawer had me down into the Cellar below , I know the way in againe if I see 't , but at that time to finde the way out againe , I had the help of more eies than mine owne : is the taste of that Ipsitate stil in your pallat sir ?  I shall : never c'ud I have met with such a faire opportunitie : for iust in the mid way lies my sweet-heart , as lovely a lasse as any is in Lancashire , and kisses as sweetly : I 'le see her going or comming , I 'le have one smouch at thy lips , and bee with thee to bring Mal Spencer .  Thou art a witty rogue , and thinkst to make me believe any thing , because I saw thee make thy broome sweepe the house without hands t'other day .  I your old sweet heart Lawrence ? Old love will not be forgotten   Thy belly full wench .  Goe fetch it quickly then .  I would but see that .  Light , it comes ; and I do thinke there is so much of the Divell in 't as will turne all the milke shall come in 't these seven yeares , and make it burne too , till it stinke worse than the Proverbe of the Bishops foot .  My horse is gone , nay prithee Mal . thou hast set him away , leave thy Roguerie .  There stands a blacke long-sided jade : mine was a truss'd gray .  Nay but , nay but .  Come away then , hey for Lancaster : stand up .  I have known when you have held mee for an honest fellow , and would have beleev'd me .  And carry a Wench behind me too , and did something else too , but I must not speak of her lest I be divell-torne .  I am sorry I have sayd so much , and not let Lancaster have the credit o' the Wine .  I could say sir , that you might have the better opinion of the Wine , for there are a great many pallats in the Kingdome that can relish no Wine , unlesse it be of such a Taverne , and drawne by such a Drawer —  Nay then sir I swore , and I sweare againe , honest Iack Paine drew it .  Much good doe you sir , your Wine and your mirth , and my place for your next Groome , I desire not to stay to be laught out of my opinion .  Now will I push him over and over with a peece of paper : Yes sir , I have brought you something from London .  Your honest Drawer sir , considering that you consider'd him well for his good wine —  VVas very carefull to keepe or convay this paper to you , which it seemes you dropt in the roome there .  I Mistresse .  VVhat other horse you please Mistresse .  Truly Mistresse pray pardon me , I must be plaine with you , I dare not deliver him you ; my master has tane notice of the ill case you have brought him home in divers times .  You may say your pleasure .  Aw .  You say well mistresse , you have jaded me ( a pox take you for a jade . ) Now I bethinke my selfe how damnably did I ride last night , and how divellishly have I bin rid now .  My horse , my horse , I would I were now some country Major , and in authority , to see if I would not venter to rowze your Satanicall sisterhood : Horse , horse , see thou be , & where I point thee , carry me : is that the trick on 't ? the divel himselfe shall be her carrier next if I can shun her : & yet my Mr. will not beleeve there 's any witches : there 's no running away ; for I neither know how nor whether , besides to my thinking , there 's a deepe ditch , & a hye quick-set about mee , how shall I passe the time ? What place is this ? it looks like an old barne : I le peep in at some cranny or other , and try if I can see what they are doing . Such a bevy of beldames did I never behold ; and cramming  like so many Cormorants : Marry choke you with a mischiefe .  A murrein take you , I am sure my hoofes payd for 't .  I pray Mistresse ride me as you would be rid .  Nay then I le try Conclusions .  Mare Mare , see thou be ,  And where I point thee carry me .  Yes sir , he 's broad buttock'd and full flanck'd , he doth not bate an ace of his flesh .  Not sir since you backt him .  Who I sir , may I dye sir , if you finde me in a lye sir .  Well sir , finde what you can , him you shall finde , and what you finde else ; it may befor that , instead of Gramercy horse , you may say Gramercy Robin ; you will beleeve there are no Witches ! had I not been late brideled , I coo'd have sayd more , but I hope she is ty'd to the racke that will confesse something , and though not so much as I know , yet no more then I dare justifie —  Have you found your Gelding sir ?  I hope not spurr'd , nor put into a sweat , you may see by his plump belly and sleeke legs he hath not bin sore travail'd .  I hope sir you finde none feeding there but your owne , if there be any you suspect , they have nothing to champeon , but the Bridle .  The Mare you meane sir ?  Old doe you call her ? You shall finde the marke still in her mouth , when the Bridle is out of it ? I can assure you 't is your owne Beast .  I le not perswade you to any thing , you will beleeve nothing but what you see , I say the Beast is your owne , and you have most right to keepe her , shee hath cost you more the currying , then all the Combs in your Stable are worth . You have paid for her Provender this twentie yeares and upwards , and furnisht her with all the Caparisons that she hath worne , of my Knowledge , and because she hath been ridden hard the last Night , doe you renounce her now ?  I am sure I found her no iade the last time I rid her , she carried me the best part of a hundred Miles in lesse then a quarter of an houre .  I pray doe Sir , but take heed lest when the Bridle is out of her mouth , she put it not into yours ; if she doe , you are a gone man : if she but say once — Horse , horse , see thou be . Be you rid ( if you please ) for me .  You will beleeve no VVitches ?  I am Robin , and this your wife , my Mrs.   A Bridle , jugling Bridle Sir .  Take heed Sir what you do , if you cast it hence , and she catch it up , we that are here now , may be rid as far as the Indies within these few houres , Mistresse down of your Mares bones , or your Mary-bones whether you please , and confesse your selfe to be what you are ; and that 's in plaine English a Witch , a grand notorius Witch .  So it appeares by the storie .  What cheese sir , show your selfe a man , though she appear'd so late a Beast ; Mistresse confesse all , better here than in a worse place , out with it .  A match sir , you shall finde me as mute as if I had the  Bridle still in my mouth .  I shall Sir , well now my Mistresse hath promis'd to give over her Witchery , I hope though I still continue her man , yet she will make me no more her journey-man ; to prevent which the first thing I doe shall be to burne the Bridle , and then away with the Witch .  You have taught me silence .  Sir I shall .  By your leave Sir .  Be patient I beseech you , what doe you meane Sir ?  I your Father ? he was a man I alwayes lov'd  And honour'd . He bred me .  I doe this ? I am a horse agen if I got you , Master , why Master .  And so did I , by a Divellish token , I was rid thither , though I rid home againe as fast without switch or spur .  Mal , adiew sweet Mal , ride your next journey with the company you have there .  And Mrs. the horse that stayes for you rides better with a Halter than your gingling bridle . 