 What is the matter con yeow tell ?  Yie whick way con yeow tell , but what the foule evill doone yee , here 's sick an a din .  Yie sir , and what ma' yoew o'th at , he mainteynes me to rule him , and I 'le deu 't , or ma'the heart weary o' the weambe on him .  I forbodden yeow to meddle with the old carle , and let me alone with him , yet yeow still be at him , hee serv'd yeow but wee ll to bast ye for 't , an t he were stronk enough , but an I faw foule with yee an I swaddle yee not savorly may my girts brast .  Yie , at your command anon .  How trow yeou that ? A fine World when a man cannot be whyet at heame for busie brain'd neighbors .  Hold thy prattle Parnell , aw's com'd about as weene a had it , wotst thou what Parnell ? wotst thou what ? o deare , wotst thou what ?  We han bin in love these three yeares , and ever wee had not enough , now is it com'd about that our love shall be at an end for ever , and a day , for wee mun wed may hunny , we mun wed .  Sick a waddin was there never i' Loncoshire as ween couple at on Monday newst .  I jaum thee not nor flam thee not , 't is all as true as booke , here 's both our Masters have consented and concloyded , and our Mistresses mun yeild to yt , to put aw house and lond and aw they have into our hands .  And we mun marry and be master and dame of aw .  And theyn be our Sijourners , because they are weary of the world , to live in frendiblenesse , and see what will come on 't .  My care shall sumptuous parrelments provide .  & Parn . We thanke you all .  So pray come in and fare .  With bonny Bridegroome and his love mate .  On with your melody .  On afore Fidlers , my double cewles in my honds .  'T were hot eene now , but now it 's caw'd as a stoane .  Aw —  Aw where 's my Bride —  Nay deare hunny , nay hunny , but eance , eance .  What , a point ?  Mal for awd acquaintance I will ma' thy point a point of preferment . It shan bee the Foreman of a haell Iewrie o'points , and right here will I weare it .  Wee ll sir , and what wun yeou deow than ?  Yie gadwat sir , I ware wadded but aw to seun .  Keepe her of o' me , and I shan teln yeou , and she be by I am no body : But keep her off and search me , let me be searcht as never witch was searcht , and finde ony thing mor or lasse upo me than a sufficient mon shold have , and let me be honckt by 't .  I prayn yeow gi' me the lere o'th at Latine sir .  And I thought it would ma' Parnel , love me I 'd be sure on 't , and gang about it now right .  Blest be the houre I say may hunny , may sweet Pall , that Ay's becom'd thaine agone , and thou's becom'd maine agone , and may this ea kisse ma us tway become both eane for ever and a day .  And you been welcome to it Gentlemen .  Yie marry that is it , the good houre be blessed for it , that put the wit into may head , to have a mistrust of that pestilent Codpeece-point , that the witched worch Mal Spencer go  me , ah woe worth her , that were it that made aw so nought .  It wolld ha scar'd ony that hadden their wits till a seen 't , and we werne mad eoht it were deone .  Yie an han pit on our working geere , to swinke and serve our Master and Maistresse like intill painfull servants agone , as we shudden .  And how I were betwitched my Pall . here knowes . 