 Good master Seely I do understand you , and over and over understand you so much , that I could e'ene blush at your fondnesse ; and had I a sonne to serve mee so , I would conure a divell out of him .  No , you are his childe to live in feare of him , indeed they say old men become children againe , but before I would become my childes childe , and make my foot my head , I would stand upon my head , and kick my heels at the sides .  It is an office that I am but weakly versd in ,  To plead to a sonne in the fathers behalfe ,  Blesse me what lookes the devilish young Rascall  Frights the poore man withall !  A brave beginning .  Very handsome .  What not your Father Mr. Gregory ?  Pray tell me then sir , how many yeares has hee to serve you .  Come I must tell you , you forget your selfe ,  And in this foule unnaturall strife wherein  You trample on your father . You are falne  Below humanitie . Y' are so beneath  The title of a sonne , you cannot clayme  To be a man , and let me tell you were you mine  Thou shouldst not eat but on thy knees before me .  Alas poore man ? Can you stand open ey'd  Or dry ey'd either at this now in a Father ?  He is a happy are that has brought vp his son to this .  Pray Mr. Gregory forget it , you see how  Submissive your poore penitent is , forget it ,  Forget it , put it out o' your head , knocke it  Out of your braines . I protest , if my Father ,  Nay if my fathers dogge should have sayd  As much to me , I should have embrac't him .  What was the trespasse ? It c'ud not be so hainous .  Is that the businesse : why if he had done it , had hee not  bin sufficiently secur'd in having the morgage made over to himselfe .  Fie Mr. Gregory Seely is this seemely in a sonne .  You 'le have a rod for the childe your father shortly I feare .  Alasse did hee make it cry ? Give me a stroke and I le beat him ,  Blesse me , they make me almost as mad as themselves .  Art thou his man fellow ha ? that talkest thus to him ?  This is quite upside downe , the sonne controlls the father , and the man overcrowes his masters coxscombe , sure they are all bewitch'd .  Enough good Lawrence , you have said enough .  I know not what to say to any thing here ,  This cannot be but witchcraft .  Hey day ! the daughter upon the mother too .  She is most evidently bewitcht .  Now comes the Mayd to set her Mistresses to work .  Here 's a house well govern'd ?  I have knowne this , and till very lately , as well govern'd a Family as the Country yeilds , and now what a nest of severall humors it is growne , and all divellish ones , sure all the VVitches in the Country , have their hands in this home-spun medley ; and there be no few 't is thought .  Here 's a mad businesse towards .  And I will waite with wonder the event .  They agree better then the Bels eene now , 'slid they sung tunably till we were all out of the Church , and then they clatter'd as the divell had beene in the Bellfry : on in the name of Wedlocke , Fidlers on .  What can it meane ?  Well Gentlemen , let 's follow the rest in , and feare nothing yet , the house smels well of good cheere .  We were now comming .  Peugh , I am not so old but I can carry more meate then I can eate , if the young rascals coo'd carry their drinke as well , the Country would be quieter —  Hold up your head Mr. Bridegroome .  'Zookes , I brought as good a Surloyne of Beefe from the Dresser as Knife coo'd be put to , and see — I le stay i' this house no longer .  Witches , live Witches , the house is full of witches , if we love our lives let 's out on 't .  VVhat shall we doe , dare we stay any longer ?  Zookes , I feare nothing living that I can see more then you , and that 's nothing at all , but to thinke of these invisible mischiefes , troubles me I confesse .  Zookes thou art so brave a fellow that I will stick to thee , and if we come off handsomely , I am an old Batchelour thou know'st , and must have an heyre , I like thy spirit , where 's the Bride ? where 's the Bridegroome ? where 's the Musicke ? where be the Lasses ? ha' you any wine i' the house , though we make no dinner , le ts try if we can make an afternoone .  Say you me so , but will not your sonne be angry , and your daughter chide you .  Na , if the Witches have but rob'd of your meat , and restor'd your reason , here has beene no hurt done to day , but this is strange , and as great a wonder as the rest to me .  I am glad on 't , but the divell good 'hem with my Surloyne , I thought to have set that by mine owne Trencher — But you have cold meat you say ?  And Wine you say ?  I hope the Country wenches and the Fidlers are not gone .  If not a Wedding we will make a Wake on 't , and away with the Witch ; I feare nothing now you have your wits againe : but look you , hold 'em while you have 'em .  Come away Wenches , where are you Gentlemen ?  Play Fidlers : le ts have a dance , ha my little rogue .  Zookes what ayles thy nose .  No , no , yet I would almost ha' sworn , I would not have sprite or goblin blast thy face , for all their kingdome . But han gt there is no such thing : Fidlers will you play ?  Gentlemen will you dance ?  Hold a little then .  Nay that 's unreasonable .  They are all naturall fooles man , I finde it now .  Art thou mad to dreame of Witchcraft ?  Hey day ! Here comes the payre of boyld Lovers in Sorrell sops .  Come away Bridegroome , wee 'll stay your stomack with a daunce . Now masters play a good : come my Lasse wee 'l shew them how 't is   Hey day ! why you rogues .  You drunken rogues , hold , hold , I say , and begin againe soberly the beginning of the World   This is something towards it . I bad them play the beginning o' the World , and they play , I know not what .  Thinke ! I thinke they are drunke Prithee doe not thou thinke of Witchcraft ; for my part , I shall as soone thinke this maid one , as that there 's any in Lancashire .  Why do'st thou laugh ?  A witty Rogue .  You lying Rascall .  I , and le ts see your faces , that you play fairely with us .  Doe you heare any thing ?  'T is so , the rogues are brib'd to crosse me ,  And their Fiddles shall suffer , I will breake em as small as the  Bride cake was to day .  Well said , a good boy nów ; come bride and bridegroome , leave your kissing and fooling , and prepare to come into the daunce . Wee 'le have a Horne-pipe , and then a posset and  to bed when you please . Welcome Piper , blow till thy bagge cracke agen , a lusty Horne-pipe , and all into the daunce , nay young and old .  Stay , where 's my lasse ?  Now do I plainly perceive again , here has bin nothing but witcherie all this day ; therfore into your posset , & agree among your selves as you can , I le out o' the house . And Gentlemen , if you love me or your selves , follow me .  What I have done , I ha' done , if it be well , 't is well , J doe not like the bouncing of good Offices , if the little care I have taken shall doe these poore people good , I have my end in 't , and so my reward .  Alas poore folks , they are as farre to seeke of how they doe , or what they doe , or what they should doe , as any of the rest , they are all growne Ideots , and till some of these damnable jades , with their divellish devises bee found out , tod scharme them , no remedy can be found , I mean to lay the Country for their Hagships , and if J can anticipate the purpose , of their grand Mr. Divell to confound 'em before their lease be out , be sure I le do 't .  What 's the matter now , is Hell broke loose ?  Ware Wedlocke hoe .  Now out upon her shee has a greedy worme in her , I have heard the fellow complain'd on , for an over mickle man among the maids .  Witchery , witchery , more witcherie still flat and plaine witchery . Now do I thinke upon the codpeece point the young jade gave him at the wedding : shee is a witch , and that was a charme , if there be any in the World .  Marry but I le not undertake her at these yeares , if lusty Lawrence cannot do 't .  How now Lawrence , what has thy wedlock brought thee already to thy night-cap ?  We have heard enough of your valour already , wec know you have beaten him , let that suffice .  I know not , she catterwawles I think . Parnel be patient good Parnell , and a little modest too , 't is not amisse , wee know not the relish of every eare that heares vs , le ts talke within our selves . What 's the defect ? What 's the impediment ? Lawrence has had a lusty name among the Batchellors .  Here 's good stuffe for a jurie of women to passe upon .  He 's out of a doing case it seemes .  An honest woman : that 's a good mind Parnel What say you to this Lawrence ?  Alasse it is too plaine , the poore fellow is bewitcht .  Here 's a plaine Maleficium versus hanc now .  The meaning is , you must get halfe a dozen bastards Within this twelvemoneth , and that will mend your next mariage .  Best tarry till thy head be whole Lawrence .  'T is best to have these away first .  THou art a brave Boy , the honour of thy Country ; thy Statue shall be set up in brasse upon the Market Crosse in Lancaster , I blesse the time that I answered at the Font for thee : 'Zookes did I ever think that a Godson of mine should have fought hand to fist with the Divell !  Thou art a dogged Sire , and doest not know the vertue of my Godsonne , my sonne now ; he shall be thy sonne no longer : he and I will worry all the Witches in Lancashire .  I care not , though we leave not above three untainted women in the Parish , we 'll doe it .  'T is well he did so , we will so swing them in two-penny halters Boy .  Villanous Hags   It would not come , would it ?  Is 't possible ?   That the Divell should put in their hearts to delight in such Villanies ! I have sought about these two dayes , and heard of a hundred such mischievous tricks , though none mortall , but could not finde whom to mistrust for a Witch till now this boy , this happy boy informes me .  And they should neere have been sought for me if their affrightments and divelish devices , had not brought my Boy into such a sicknesse ; VVhereupon indeed I thought good to acquaint your worship , and bring the Boy unto you being his Godfather , and as you now stick not to say his Father .  After you I thanke yon Gossip . But my Boy thou hast satisfied me in their names , and thy knowledge of the women , their turning into shapes , their dog-trickes , and their horse trickes , and their great Feast in the Barne ( a pox take them with my Surloyne , I say still . ) But a little more of thy combat with the Divell , I prithee ; he came to thee like a Boy thou sayest , about thine owne bignesse ?  Ah Rogue !  Ah good Boy .  In that he was my sonne againe , ha boy ; I see him at it now .  O the grand Divell pare 'em .  A pox , but by his feet , he may be the Club-footed Horse-coursers father , for all his young lookes .  And she told no body but folkes on 't . VVell Gossip Gretty , as thou art a Miller , and a close thiefe , now let us keepe it as close as we may till we take 'hem , and see them handsomly hanged o' the way : Ha my little Cusse-divell , thou art a made man . Come , away with me .  Come Gossip , come Boy — Gentlemen you are come to the bravest discovery — Mr. Seely and the rest , how is 't with you ? you look reasonable well me thinkes .  Is all so well with you already ? goe to , will you know a reason for 't Gentlemen : I have catcht a whole Kennel of Witches . It seemes their Witch is one of 'hem , and so they are discharm'd , they are all in Officers hands , and they will touch here with two or three of them for a little private parley , before they goe to the Iustices . Master Generous is comming hither too , with a supply that you dreame not of , and your Nephew Arthur .  And that will be about a day after next Sizes I take it ,  Now a shame take you for a fardell of fooles , have you knowne so many of the Divels tricks , and can be ignorant of that common feate of the old Iugler ; that is , to leave you all to the Law , when you are once seized on by the tallons of Authority ? I le undertake this little Demigorgon Constable with these Common-wealth Characters upon his staffe here , is able inspite of all your bugs-words , to stave off the grand Divell for doing any of you good till you come to his Kingdome to him , and there take what you can finde .  Well say , stand out Boy , stand out Miller , stand out Robin , stand out Soldier , and lay your accusation upon 'em .  Doe you laugh Gentlewoman ? what say you to all these matters ?  Ah ha , that 's her Divell , her Incubus I warrant ; take her off from the rest they 'l hurt her . Come hether poore old woman . I le dandle a Witch a little , thou wilt speake , and tell the truth , and shalt have favour doubt not . Say art not thou a Witch ?  And that Mamilion which thou call'st upon  Is thy familiar Divell is 't not ? Nay prithee speake .  That 's a good woman , how long hast had 's acquaintance , ha ?  A pretty matter . What was he like a man ?  And then he lay with thee , did he not sometimes ?  Humh — and how ? and how a little ? was he a good Bedfellow ?  I trust me is 't . Give the Divell his due .  There was sweet coupling .  Peace , and did he weare good clothes ?  I , very like his points were blacke enough . But come we 'l trifle w 'yee no longer . Now shall you all to the Iustices , and let them take order with you till the Sizes , and then let Law take his course , and Uivat Rex . Mr. Generous I am sorry for your cause of sorrow , we shall not have your company ?  Mr. Seely I rejoyce for your families attonement .  On afore Drovers with your untoward Cattell . 