 Robin .  Quickly good Robin , the gray Guelding .  And why not that ?  O is it so , and must he be made acquainted with my actions by you , and must I then be controll'd by him , and now by you ; you are a sawcey Groome .  No sir , I le doe my pleasure .  Horse , horse , see thou be ,  And where I point thee carry me .  I see thou art not quite tyr'd by shaking of thy selfe , 't is a signe that as thou hast brought mee hither , so thou art able to beare mee backe , and so you are like good Robert . You will not let me have your masters gelding , you will not . Wel fir , as you like this journey , so deny him to me hereafter .  Doe you grumble you groome ? Now the bridl 's of , I turne thee to grazing gramercy my good horse , I have no better provender for thee at this time , thou hadst best like Aesops Asse to feed upon Thistles , of which this place will affoord thee plenty . I am bid to a better banquet , which done , I le take thee up from grasse , spur cutt , and take a short cutt home . Farewell .  Is all the cheare that was prepared to grace the wedding feast , yet come ?  My horse , my horse , ha , ha , ha .  Pull , and pull hard  For all that hath lately bin prepar'd  For the great wedding feast .  Well ,  What sod or rost meat more , pray tell .  This meat is tedious , now some Farie ,  Fetch what belongs unto the Dairie .  Ha , ha , ha , upon the knave my man .  So those that are our waiters nere ,  Take hence this Wedding cheere .  We will be lively all , and make this barn our hall .  At Night .  My horse .  The night we have Feasted , now comes on the day .  Come sirrah , stoope your head like a tame jade ,  VVhil'st I put on your Bridle .  That 's at full speed ,  Sir .  It cannot be deny'd , I am such a curst Creature .  Pardon sir .  I am .  O I have .  I have promis'd him my soule .  What interest in this Soule , my selfe coo'd claime  I freely gave him , but his part that made it  I still reserve , not being mine to give .  I hope not so .  Yes Sir I have .  I hope I never bargain'd for that fire ,  Further then penitent teares have power to quench .  You behold them now .  ( If you looke on me with charitable eyes )  Tinctur'd in blood , blood issuing from the heart ,  Sir I am sorry ; when I looke towards Heaven  I beg a gracious Pardon ; when on you  Me thinkes your Native goodnesse should not be  Lesse pittifull than they : 'gainst both I have err'd ,  From both I beg attonement .  I kneele to both your Mercies .  Alas , None better ,  Or after mature recollection can be  More sad to thinke on 't .  Sir they are .  Well Cozen this is all you have to do :  Retire the Gallants to some privat roome ,  Where call for wine , and junckets what you please ,  Then thou shalt need to do no other thing  Than what this note directs thee , observe that  An trouble me no farther .  Marry Lasse  To bring a new conceit to passe .  Thy Spirit must borrow more ,  To fill the number three or foure ;  Whom we will use to no great harm ,  Only assist me with thy charme .  This night wee 'l celebrate to sport :  'T is all for mirth , we mean no hurt .  Withdraw then , quicke ,  Now gallants , ther 's for you a trick .  Strike .  Strike .  Strike .  Strike —  I' th' Mill there lyes  A Souldier yet with unscratcht eyes ,  Summon the Sister-hood together  For we with all our Spirits will thither ;  And such a Catterwalling keepe ,  That he in vaine shall thinke to sleepe .  Call Meg , and Doll , Tib , Nab , and Iug ,  Let none appeare without her Pug .  We 'l try our utmost Art and skill .  To fright the stout Knave in the Mill .  Is Nab come ?  Where 's Jug ?  But where 's Peg ?  Is he fast ?  Then to work , to work my pretty Laplands  Pinch , here , scratch ,  Doe that within , without we 'l keep the watch .  Good Nephew leave me .  If it be so , excuse my weaknes to him , say I can speake with none .  Yes sir , but now desire no company .  Noyse troubles me , and I would gladly sleepe .  My hand , 't is there .  I pray excuse me .  Alas I have not strength to lift it up .  I am undone .  I will say nothing , but what you know you know ,  And as the law shall finde me let it take me . 