 Tush these are accidents , all game is ( subject to .  Somewhat strange , but not as you inforce it ,  Perhaps some Foxe had earth'd there ,  And though it be not common , for I seldome  Have knowne or heard the like , there squat her selfe ,  And so her scape appeare but Naturall ,  Which you proclaime a Wonder .  To leave this argument , are you resolv'd  Where we shall dine to day ?  See who comes yonder ,  A fourth , to make us a full Messe of guests  At Master Generous Table .  Let 's set the best face on 't .  Sweet Mr. Whetstone .  No doubt at all kind Mr. Whetstone ; but we have not seene you of late , you are growne a great stranger amongst us , I desire sometimes to give you a visit ; I pray where do you lye ?  It seemes then you are of opinion that there are Witches , for mine own part , I can hardly be induc'd to think there is any such kinde of people .  He hath confest himselfe to be a Bastard .  We meane this day to see what fare he keepes .  Sweet Mr. Whetstone .  It seemes hee 's peece of a Scholler .  And what might that be :  I pray expresse your selfe .  For what ?  'T is done .  But come , now the Hare is found and started ,  She shall have Law , so to our sport .  A Hare , a Hare , halloe , halloe , the Divell take these curres , will they not stir , halloe , halloe , there , there , there , what are they growne so lither and so lazie ? Are Mr. Robinsons dogges turn'd tykes with a wanion ? the Hare is yet in sight , halloe , halloe , mary hang you for a couple of mungrils ( if you were worth hāging , & have you serv'd me thus ? nay then I le serve you with the like sauce , you shall to the next bush , there will I tie you , and use you like a couple of curs as you are , & though not lash you , yet  lash you whilest my switch will hold , nay since you have left your speed , I le see if I can put spirit into you , and put you in remembrance what halloe , halloe meanes .  Now blesse me heaven , one of the Greyhounds turn'd into a woman , the other into a boy ! The lad I never saw before , but her I know well ; it is my gammer Dickison .  All , all 's transform'd , looke you what I have !  Thy Vnckle and Aunt , old Mr. Seely and his wife , doe nothing but kisse and play together like Monkeyes .  Yet this is the better madnesse .  But the best sport of all is , the old Batchelour Master  Doughty , that was so cautious , & feat'd every thing to be witchcraft , is now wound up to such a confidence that there is no such thing , that hee dares the Divell doe his worst , and will not out o' the house by all persuasion , and all for the love of the husbandmans daughter within , Mal Spencer .  A little , but Whetstone knowes her better .  He told me , hee had complain'd to his Aunt on us , and that she would speak with us .  Take heed , he 's at your heels .  Here they come all  In a True-love knot .  Play out that we may heare you .  The news , ye heare it up i' th aire , do you not ?  Hearke ye , do you not heare it ? there 's a Skimington , towards gentlemen .  I le tell you gentlemen , since you have taken home old Seely and his wife to your house , and you their son and daughter to yours , the house-keepers Lawrence , and his late bride Parnell are fallen out by themselves .  The quarell began they say upon the wedding night , and in the bride bed .  No but a better implement it seemes the bridegroome was unprovided of , a homely tale to tell .  He 's comming to make his mone to you about it , and she too , since you have taken their masters & mistresses to your care , you must do them right too .  Grievously broke his head in I know not how many places : of which the hoydens have taken notice , and will have a Skimmington on horse-backe presently . Looke ye , here comes both plaintiffe and defendant .  Y' are soone provided it seems for such a journey .  Hearke gentlemen , the shew is comming .  How shall we passe the time ?  Yes , canst thou shew me mine ?  Yes , he was my mothers Taylor , I remember him ever since I was a childe .  I faine would strike , but cannot .  What for a false illusive apparition ? I hope the divell is not able to perswade thee thou art a Bastard .  J hope Arthur has taken a course with his Vncle about him by this time , who would have thought such a foole as hee could have beene a Witch ?  See Lawrence and Parnell civilly accorded againe it seems , and accoutred as they were wont to be when they had their wits .  And I protest I am glad to see it .  And are they well agen ?  See he comes . 