 Be comforted good Sir , my house , which now  You may be pleas'd to call your owne , is large  Enough to hold you all ; and for your sorrowes ,  You came to lose 'hem : And I hope the meanes  Is readily at hand : The Doctor 's comming ,  Who , as by Letters , I advertis'd you ,  Is the most promising man to cure your Sonne ,  The Kingdome yields ; it will astonish you  To heare the mervailes he hath done in cures  Of such distracted ones , as is your sonne ,  And not so much by bodily Physicke ( no!  He sends few Recipes to th' Apothecaries )  As medicine of the minde , which he infuses  So skilfully , yet by familiar wayes ,  That it begets both wonder and delight  In his observers , while the stupid patient  Finds health at unawares .  Then I le tell you Sir ,  He cur'd a Country gentleman , that fell mad  For spending of his land before he sold it :  That is , 't was sold to pay his debts : All went  That way , for a dead horse , as one would say ,  He had not money left to buy his dinner ,  Upon that whole-sale day . This was a cause ,  Might make a gentleman mad you 'll say ; and him  It did , as mad as land lesse Squire could bee .  This Doctor by his art remov'd his madnesse ,  And mingled so much wit among his braines ,  That , by the over-flowing of it meerely ,  He gets and spends five hundred pound a yeare now ,  As merily as any Gentleman  In Darby-shire ; I name no man . But this  Was pretty well you 'll say .  There was a Lady mad ,  I name no Lady : but starke mad she was ,  As any in the Country , City , or almost  In Court could be .  With study ;  Tedious and painfull study : And for what  Now can you thinke ?  No , t was to finde a way to love her husband ,  Because she did not , and her friends rebuk'd her .  She was seven years in search of it , & could not ,  Though she consum'd his whole estate by it .  No ; he was not borne  With wit enough to loose , but mad was she  Untill this Doctor tooke her into cure ,  And now she lies as lovingly on a flockebed  With her owne Knight , as she had done on downe ,  With many others , but I name no parties ,  Yet this was well you 'l say .  Then sir , of Officers , and men of place ,  Whose sences were so numm'd , they understood not  Bribes from dew fees , and fell on premunires ,  He has cur'd diverse , that can now distinguish ,  And know both when , and how to take , of both ;  And grow most safely rich by 't , tother day  He set the braines of an Attorney right ,  That were quite topsie turvy overturn'd  In a pitch ore the Barre ; so that ( poore man )  For many Moones , he knew not whether he  Went on his heels or 's head , till he was brought  To this rare Doctor , now he walkes again ,  As upright in his calling , as the boldest  Amongst 'hem . This was well you 'l say .  And then for horne mad Citizens my neighbours ,  He cures them by the dozens , and we live  As gently with our wives , as Rammes with Ewes .  'Slid he has almost catch'd me ; No Sir no ,  I name no parties I , But wish you merry ;  I straine to make you so , and could tell forty  Notable cures of his to passe the time  Untill he comes .  Mine sir he did : 'Sfoot I am catcht againe .  Never in publike : Nor indures the name  Of Doctor , though I call him so , but lives  With an odde Lord in towne , that lookes like no Lord ,  My Doctor goes more like a Lord then he .  Ex. Doctor .   O welcome sir , I sent mine owne wife for you :  Ha you brought her home againe ?  Yes sir , this Gentlemans wife , and his sonnes wife :  They all ayle something , but his sonne ( t is thought )  Is falling into madnesse , and is brought  Up by his carefull father to the towne here  To be your patient , speake with him about it .  the old man's jealous  Of his young wife ; I finde him by the question  He put me to ere while .  They 'll ha' mad children then .  So , he has found him .  Now Bab , what newes ?  How prettily like a foole she talkes ?  And she were not mine owne wife , I could be  So taken with her .  I have not yet my Lord , but all 's in readinesse ,  According to the Heralds full directions .  Full foure descents beyond  The conquest my good Lord , and findes that one  Of your French ancestry came in with the conqueror .  I cannot thinke my Lord  They 'll follow you in this though .  It is my Lord , and laught at by a many .  I am more beholding to them , then all the rest :  Their laughter makes me merry ; others mirth ,  And not mine owne it is , that feeds me that  Battens me as poore mens cost do's Usurers .  But tell me Blaze , what say they of me , ha ?  They say my Lord you looke more like a pedlar ,  Then like a Lord , and live more like an Emperor .  More then to feel 't .  Yes my Lord i' th countrey when you are there .  I know my Lord  Your house in substance is an Amphitheater  Of exercise and pleasure .  Rather an Emperors my Lord .  My Lord t is well .  Tell him it wants a finger ! My small wit ,  Already finds what finger it must fit .  My Lord , Sir understands the course y' are in ,  By your letters he tells mee ; and bad me gi' you  This Ring , which wants a finger here he sayes   So , so , the Ring has found a finger .  To bed , to bed , to bed : I know your voyage ,  And my deare Lords deare plot , I understand ,  Whose Ring hath past here by your flight of hand .  My Lord , J am become your honours usher ,  To these your guests . The worthy Mr. Ioylesse ,  With his faire wife , and daughter in law .  T will worke .  Is there a part for me ? how shall I study 't ?  Then if I doe not act  Nothing as well as the best of 'hem , let me be hist .  Exit .   Bab ! art thou here ?  Yes , yes .  I lay with the Butler . Who was thy bed-fellow ?  Yes , with the Doctor in the Bride-chamber .  But had you two no waggery ? Ha!   Nay facks I am not jealous :  Thou knowst I was cur'd long since , and how .  I jealous ! I an asse . A man sha' n't aske  His wife shortly , how such a gentleman does ?  Or how such a gentleman did ? or which did best ?  But she must thinke him jealous .  Within , or without , or over , or under ,  I have no time to thinke o' such poore things .  O ho Bab .  This is a shape .  Thou 'lt see me in 't anon ; but shalt not know me  From the starkst foole i th' Towne . And I must dance  Naked in 't Bab .  Yes Bab . My Lord gave order for 't last night .  It should ha' bin i th' Play : But because that  Was broke off , he will ha 't today .  O , but  I did though Bab , two Mutes .  Fie foole , thou understandst not what a Mute is .  A Mute is a dumbe Speaker in the Play .  That 's a Bull too , as wise as you are Bab .  A Mute is one that acteth speakingly ,  And yet sayes nothing . I did two of them .  The Sage Man-midwife , and the Basket-maker .  Prethee good Bab ,  Come in , and help me on with 't in our Tyring-house .  And helpe the Gentlemen , my fellow dancers ,  And thou shalt then see all our things , and all  Our properties and practice to the Musicke . 