 Mr. Tridewall ! well met . Why so fast sir , I tooke you for a Foot-post .  Because you went so fast . But since you are angry , I would you were going twise as last . If I interrupt you , hang me . d ee heare ?  I shall find a time to right my selfe , I doubt not .  Yes an 't please him .  Haue I eyes and eares , and can thinke of trifling Money matters ?  If I try not this Tridewell ; put him to the dearest tryall of his life . —  Let me haue these knockd out ; these puld off ; these pluckd out , and these sawd off .  The time and place you meane . Thinke you hee durst haue done it , but in his kinsmans house ; hee and the multitude of his seruants present .  Yes Lady ; and that hee intreats you , to beare with the sodainesse of the occasion , which hee protests , deepely vrges him to be married presently ; desiring you not to trouble your selfe in examination of his reasons : for vpon his honesty and honour , the end of it is for good to you both . Come sweet Madame ( now I am bold to giue you your dew title ) your knight is ready prest on his aduontures ( d ee heare ) and t is onely you , that hee seekes to incounter .  T is as I say Madame , ( d ee heare ) the good fit 's come on him .  Is hee bounteous and liberall ha ? Do's he make large Suppers and lend money . d ee heare ? Is he good at that ?  A Butter-print ?  And that 's a safe age for a Maid in the countrey : d ee heare ?  Is shee Northern ( d ee heare ) will shee not shrinke i' the wetting ?  A place of faire promising ! How haue I liu'd that never discouer'd this place before ? This place royall ! But sought my recreation , in by-lanes , and sluttish corners , vnsauory Allies and Ditch sides ? when here the whole house is perfum'd : An Earle might thinke it his owne lodging ; Ladies might come to see the pictures , and not blush , to goe in or out vnmask'd .  I vnderstand thy office , leads thee no further ; thy paines are abroad and below stayres . Here honest Fetch . Looke thee , here 's the poore price of a new paire of shooes ; take it . Descend , and execute thy duty .  Now gentlevvoman to you . What fees belong to your Key ? Come , vvher 's the bed ? vvhere 's the party ?  Here 's the man : her●'s the money . Chunke chunke you old Gamster , dost heare ? Here 's halfe a peece to buy thee complection , sack or Aqua-vitae . What thou lik'st .  Faith one that 's a little ill giuen at this time . Where 's the peece ? here are the peeces ● tell thee .  Giue me but a little space to wonder at thy strange demands and I wil tell thee , good discretion . If I should purchase a broken Cockscomb , or bruz'd ribs now , for mistaking another mans habit , the smart were onely mine . The villaine swore to me , his Master was sent for ; and that his Master swore this was a Bawd to his choyce Whore , newly intertayn'd ; and that shee knew not him , and might well mistake me for him . On which presumption I haue waded thus farre : and if I sticke in the Mud , or be driuen backe by a tempest , I am armd . T is not the first time I haue beene Wether-beaten , or Dry-beaten , d ee heare ?  You doe not know me ? or , at least , not remember mee ?  Shee speakes like the wife of an Orator , that could dictate her husbands speeches ! Were not you this Morning at sir Phillip Lucklesse lodging ? spoke not you with him ? sent you not for him afterwards to repaire hither to the party ? And know you not the man ?  I will instantly prouide for your better welcome ! Will you so ? T will passe : and by this light I thinke for my Masters iest : I will recouer my chardges , and gaine over and aboue for three returnes more with the bare repetition of it out of one mans purse , the Widgine . My iests are his nutriment ; and my wit is his owne , he payes so duely for it . If the Wench be but pleasing , now , ●o my expectation , my felicity is crown'd .  There is no gouernment vnder the Sunne , like the politique gouernment of a Bawdy-house .  You say my Loue is but a Man .  But I can find more ods .  Twixt him and others then I can ,  find betweene him and Gods .  He has in 's eye  such Maiestie .  His shape is so diuine .  That were I Owner of the world .  Hee onely should be mine .  Sweet prologue to the insuing Interlude  Bea.   Dost heare me honest fellow ? was this the Parties voyce ?  Excellent ! Shee has rais'd my desire aboue her noates . Why am I thus rauishd , and yet delayd ?  O how her wit and care reviues me ! From hence forth shee is my Bawd for euer . My discretion ! But are they wholsome Lords Sirah ?  Must I be lockd in ?  The politique gouernment of this little common wealth !  Oh for a large Window , one of the last edition , to leape out with halfe my life or limbs .  Oh hold : for heauens sake hold . I le confesse .  Oh! oh , I le confesse any thing .  The truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth to helpe me —  No indeed , indeed , and indeed la I will not .  Oh , oh . Ladies speake for me . ha' you no mercy ?  No vpon my life ; only his Man abus'd mee for my Money .  Sir Phillips owne words to his Man , vpon a letter this Lady deliuer'd to him this Morning .  Right sir : which hee tooke so contemptuously , that instantly he resolued to mary the Widow , Mistris Fitchow ; and was this Morning married priuately in a Chamber , within an houre after you saw him .  It is vndoubtedly true . I saw them married , and dined with them , at his lodging , where they will sup too : But after Supper they goe to her house in the Towne to bed .  That I le deliuer to you . Meane while the rest desire they may withdraw a while .  Now to your 〈◊〉 I disclose my selfe .  My selfe , onely to make the number in the Dance sutable . And so did all the rest to fulfill the fashion , only two excepted , that were the Leaders and subiect of the Dance . The one , your Cosen Tridewell , who holds himselfe a lost Louer , in that you Madame to whom his affection is wholly deuoted , haue made your selfe incapable of him , in being the lawfull right of another . This paper shewes him more at large .  Shee was your faire Neece sir Paul ; the most disconsolate Beauty that ere I saw , giuing her selfe for euer lost vnto your loue sir Phillip , presuming you once promis'd her Mariage , of which shee made a claime this Morning by her Nurse , whom you revil'd by name of Bawd , calling faire Constance Whore ; and to her more despight , hastned your Mariage sooner by ● day , then you before intended with this Lady .  Will you not goe to bed sir ? wee waite for your points .  Without offence I le tell you . You know this Morning at your Lodging , there past some words betwixt mee , and your sullen Kinsman , Master — indeed la , Tridewell , and from him too much indeed for me , a profest Souldier to beare : But the place protected him . Till after vpon mature consideration I made after him for satisfaction , thus  arm'd as you see . Purposing with this Ropes end to right me ; and to maintaine that right with this sword , which I thanke Mars neuer yet faild me ; as it hath well beene manifested by the effusion of much vnworthy blood of my abusers , in France , Spaine , Italy , Poland , Sweden , Hungary , all parts of Germany .  I haue vs'd it in some score or two of Sea fights too by the way .  The first sight I recouer'd of him , was as he was entring the house of the greasie Knight there , what call you him ?  Squelch , I a pox squelch him . I waited a quarter of an houre at his doore , for your Kinsman ; and longer I would not , had he beene Kinsman to the Emperour , and my Enemy . Therefore in I went , told Master Tridewell in his eare , my comming was to call him forth , to dischardge the office of a Gentleman with his Sword , in answering those wrongs wherewith I held my reputation wounded . Was it not well , ha ? Could a poore Gentleman say more ? and that in ciuill fashion very priuately in respect of the company , not shewing any the least distemper , in looke or gesture . But the Women read presently in his countenance the whole matter ; and briefly by their pretty perswasion I tooke ordinary satisfaction of him .  Why hee confess'd hee wrong'd me , was sorry for 't , and so forth . What should we speake more on 't . This you must not speake of neither . You must promise me that o' your honour , as you desire to heare what followes : I loue no ripping vp old soares .  Then thus sir ? I soone perceiu'd , their drift to appease ,  & winne me to their friendship was for my assistance , and indeede to beare the● out in this nights worke , the Maske . The whole plot of all which was meerely to so we dissention betweene you and your new married Lady , to worke if they can a seperation , before carnall copulation , in which if they can prevaile , and that the dislike continue betweene you to that height , that a divorce be required equally by the consent of you both , your Marriage then is frustrated , and you stand in statu quo prim d ee heare . So your Cosen Tridewell may lawfully pursue his hopes in your Bride , whō he loues as eagerly as the melancholly virgine dotes on you .  There 's a Ganon for it Sir . If both parties agree to a divorce after Marriage , so it be before Copulation .  If you will couenant on your part in defence of my reputation , to let me rayle at you behinde your backe , I will subscribe ▪   Here Sir , I deliuer it as my deede .  I know not whither it be discontent or wilfulnesse , that possesses her : but you are to haue no entrance there to night . That she has sufficiently sworne .  Your comming , and the priviledge of this place hath once more preseru'd that vnworthy Tridewell from the justice of my fury , which should haue fallen on him , had he bin twind with me by this light .  Sir I dare do 't by day light , Moone-light , Star-light .  Any light vnder the Sunne . And that shall bee tride well on Tridewell head , dec heare ?  Not h●are ? yet , were I in a Combat as great as euer I my selfe fought any , I could both heare , and giue counsell . Therefore say vnto your selfe , by the helpe of your  Gouernour shee is your owne .  But d ee heare ?  T is done sir . I warrant shee 's plac'd , succesfully , d ee heare ?  I haue sent her before his Worship by a Constable .  And if I ha' not fitted her with a Second , my friend vex him , the Constable , then say there is no wit among Knaues , no want among Schollers , no rest in the graue , nor vnquietnesse in Mariage , d ee heare ?  Sir , what helpe he has of me , is for the Ladies and his owne sake , not your's d ee heare .  What dost thou thinke of me , weake fellow ? Am not I a Commander , ha ?  It is sir Phillip Lady , come to doe you right . De● heare ?  Speake your selfe sir .  Or the Deuill to choake you . Well boystrous Master Tridewell , your Ropes end hath driuen me into a busines , here , deserues a whole Rope . But I hope that Destiny attends not me , though this Mariage be his : And since it is his Fate , faire befall it him , I am discharg'd   What an Owsell t is ● shee meanes hee shall marry her for a Song . Byrlady a competent Moderne portion .  And in thy clothes I beleeue .  Are you able to doe that thinke you ?  What say you to that Lady . P●x on you , I run● sweet hazard to aduance your fortune , doe I not ?  Kisse , and part ; kisse and part .  A Spaniard , Ha!   And for me sir — wid . Nay , I dare not but beeleeue thee before thou speakest Gouernour : therefore prithee le ts not talke on 't our selues , but quietly , and presently beginne our trauels , that we may heare no body else talke on 't . 