 BVt I beseech you sir , Take me somewhat nearer your Councell . May I assure my selfe , that this report goes true ; that you are on this treaty of Marriage with that Widow ?  Troth in my mind , you were better venture your selfe , and fortune to the Bermudas . T is true , shee has a good estate : some nine thousand , I thinke : and were an apt match for one that knew how to governe it , and her ; some hard bred Cittizen , crafty Lawyer , or countrey Iustice . But you , a tender Nurseling of the Court , altogether vnmixt with such nature or education , to cast your selfe vpon her , who for her yeares might be your Mother ( they say : I never saw her ) and has beene the Towne widow these three yeares , still conversant with Doctors , and Proctors of the civill Law ; of which Tribe her husband was too . Never looke to bee the better for her Riches : Shee 'll consume yours and you too ▪ though your backe were Herculean ; and lay you in your graue , or in Bedlem ( my life on 't ) before she dreame o' dying , though it be all that you can hope , or pray for , after Mariage .  What married !  Send you ioy . I le out of Towne .  No , good sir Phillip , rather then I would be in sound of a Bell that should ring at it , I would haue my braines fillipt out with the Clapper .  Sir , I intend to bee none of your Mourners , which indeed my presence there would make mee ; and so , perhaps , infect the rest . I leaue my best wishes to you , and will indeauour to pray for you . Indeed I will .  A Foot-post ! Indeed your fine wit will post you into another world one of these dayes , if it take not the whipping post i' the way . And why Foot-post , in your little witty apprehension ?  Nay I know you are apt to decline any mans anger , good Captaine Anvile : you haue beene beaten to 't .  What are you there too ? Mr. Widgine , I take it ?  From Crowland , I warrant you , a little before a Moulting time .  A faire Demonstration !  This fellow cannot chuse but haue a rare sister : Hee quotes her so !  In good time sir .  Might shee haue had 'hem both sir ?  In deed sixe yoake of such cattell would plow vp all his acres in a forenoone .  Still shee is his Authority . I will see this woman . Sir Phillip , here are Guests will applaud your match . Bid 'hem welcome ▪ God buy .  Pray sir , are you in sober earnest ?  If I can yet redeeme him , he is happy . By your leaue Lady : May my boldnesse proue pardonable ?  Is this shee trow !  'T is true , I brought his name thus farre to enter mee to your presence . But here I shake it off , as I would doe his remembrance : but that I know him too well .  Too well indeede Lady ; but in the ill part . I know him to be no equall Match for you . Yet I heare you receiue him as a Suter .  It is not gone so farre I hope .  Beshrew your fortune then . And if my counsell ;  The friendliest counsell e're you hearkned to ,  Stop not your ventrous foote from one step further ,  ( For now you are vpon the brinke of danger )  You fall into a Sea of endlesse sorrowes .  Looke back into your selfe ; read o're your Story ,  Finde the content the quiet minde you liu'd in ,  The wealth , the peace , the pleasure you enioy'd ;  The free command of all you had beneath you ,  And none to be commanded by aboue you .  Now glaunce your eye on this side , on the yoake ,  You bring your neck to , laden downe with cares ,  Where you shall faintly draw a tedious life ,  And euery step incounter with new strife .  Then , when you groane beneath your burdenous charge ,  And wearily chance to reuert a looke  Vpon the price you gaue for this sad thraldome ,  You 'll feele your heart stabd through with many a woe ,  Of which one dyes not while a thousand grow .  All will be then too late : Now is the time ,  Now rings the warning bell vnto your breast :  Where if you can but entertaine a thought ,  That tells you how you are beset with danger ,  You are secure ; Exclude it , you are lost  To endlesse sorrowes , bought with dearest cost .  A subtill question ! This woman is not brainelesse .  Loue of him Lady ? If this can be loue ,  To seeke to crosse him , in so great a hope ,  As your inioying ; being all the meanes ,  Or possibility he has to liue on ;  If it be loue to him , to let you know  How lewd and dissolute of life he is ,  By which his fortunes being sunke , he is growne  The scorne of his acquaintance , his friends trouble ,  Being the common borrower of the Towne .  A Gallant lights not a Tobacco Pipe ,  But with his borrowing letters ( shee 's not mou'd )  And if you put him off a fortnight longer ,  Hee 'l be layd vp for moneys he tooke vp  To buy his Knighthood ; besides his deepe ingagements  To Goldsmith , Silkman , Taylor , Millener ,  Sempster , Shoomaker , Spurrier , Vintner , Tapster ,  ( All stirres her not , shee stands as if prepar'd  To heare as much of truth and beare with it . )  Men of all Trades , and Occupations ,  From his Mercer downward to his Waterman ,  Haue venter'd the last sixpence on his Credit ;  And all but wayt to pay themselues from you .  And I may well imagine how 't would grieue  A woman of your wealth , to disburse all ,  To saue a Knight out of his Ward i' th' Counter ;  And lack with all his company at home ;  While he frequents youthfull society  To make more charge for Nurseries abroad :  For I haue heard him say you are old ; and that  It is your wealth he marries , and not you .  If this be loue to him , that I discouer  ( The meanes to saue you to be his vndoing , )  Let no man take a friends help in his wooing .  Consider Lady —  Sure , I was much mistaken in this woman .  Shee will discouer me .  Me thinke I stand  Like a false witnes 'gainst anothers life ,  Ready to take his punishment .  Can this be shee ? how strangely am I taken !  If thou hast mercy , Loue , keep 't from my heart .  Wil 't please you heare me ?  What haue I done ? The curse of ouer-weening brains ,  Shame , and disgrace are guerdon of my paines .  O , I shall fall beneath the scorne of fooles :  A punishment as iust , as great for such ,  That doe in things , concerne them not , too much .  Oh what a setled rock of Constancie  She planteth her affection ? not to moue ,  Though all the breath of slanderous reproach ,  Driuing tempestuous clowds and stormes of horror ,  Should beat , at once , against it .  I would I had not seene , at least not heard her  In all so contrary to all opinion .  They said she was old , vnhandsome , and vnciuill ,  Forward , and full of womanish distemper .  Shee 's none of these : but opposite in all .  My witty purpose was to saue my friend  From such a hazard ; and to loath her so ,  That I might make her loathsome to his fansie :  But I my selfe am falne into that hazard ;  To wrong my friend ; to burne in lawlesse loue ;  Which oh that prayers or penance may remoue .  I beg your pardon ; dare not look vpon you . —  Indeed Lady , I am so farre from being in any plot herein , that I protest it was merely by his outside , and that in the doubtfull light of the Euening , that I could guesse t was hee . And had he beene denyed , I had gone well satisfied , it had beene some other man . Which if it proue , and so his name be abus'd — Or if it be he indeed , though hitherto  my most respected Cosen , that offers such an outrage , as you deliuer it to be : I am so much a friend to honesty , that let me but see the man or beast , I le doe the faire office of a Gentleman to right you . Indeed Lady I will .  Alasse faire Lady , would they iniure you ?  And has your youth and beauty plac'd your loue on him ?  Indeed t is pittifull . Weepe not sweet Lady . He shall loue yee .  Shew me the mischiefe , that hath abus'd vs all . Can you conceale him longer ?  You doe instruct me well . Pray let me see him .  Mischeiuous Diuell ! What magicall madnesse coniur'd you into this shape ?  Indeed I le coniure you out on 't .  Nay , indeed I le beat you a little first , you 'll confesse the better . T will come the easier from you . T is a good preparatiue .  No sir , not any thing . But the truth the truth sir .  You would be swearing now would you ? there 's for that .  I le tell you Lady . The most notorious , base , beaten Rascall ●●out the Towne . T were lost breath to say more by him . H●e is as you see ▪ Onely is name is Anvile : and they that know him not , call him Captaine .  I pray thee doe , to laue me a labour : for hee is not halfe beaten yet .  Well sir , thanke the Ladies . Now sir , put this Ladies fauour here in your pocket ; and keepe it there till I call for it . And marke what I say , if ever I find thee without this Instrument or the like , when I shall call for it , to beat them ( marke me ) indeed I le ●eat thee dead . And now to your examination . How got your rotten Mutton ship into this Lyons case ? was it by the Owners knowledge ? was the Master of these Cloathes priuy to your vndertaking ? Answere sirah , bonafide , I or no .  What presumption made you thinke so vilely of these Gentlewomen ?  The Error 's found . Her name you say is Constance ,  which likewise is the name of a prostituted Strumpet , with whom , t is thought , the wantonnesse of his youth hath held former familiarity ; and now it seemes makes doubt , imagining that letter to be hers , that she pretends a claime to him .  And I if it bee so .  This foole mistaking we shall all repent ; if we preuent not what may issue from it .  Will you but trust my seruice for your honour ?  Then Sir for this time you shall be repriu'd ,  from further penance : Rise and be our Guide .  But keepe your feare still : for if all our art  Miscarry , thou art sure to share the smart .  Come gi' me the instrument . Shall I neuer find thee any where , but thou wilt by iust desert exact a beating from me ? Hast thou no conscience ? wouldst thou haue me lame my selfe , or melt my grease vpon thee . Come Sir , I haue ouer-heard you all ; giue mee the Instrument , the instrument I say . Indeede I 'le haue it . So . Now Sir —  Well Sir , I shall for this time pardon you , and neuer beat you more , it before Sir Phillip here you will subscribe to this . T is nothing but a faithfull protestation to do reasonable things as I shall appoint , and not to reueale what I shall trust you withall .  Take your pleasure . I am content . Write Sir .  In what without a Knaue we cannot end ,  A Knaue imployd do's th' office of a frend .  Here , and I deliuer you this againe to keepe . Indeed you shall for performance of couenants .  Good .  Pray let me speake with you Sir .  Good night Captaine .  Follow but the way you are in Sir , and you shall arriue at your owne wishes .  By sequestring her selfe from you the first night .  A fearefull vow ! looke too 't . And I warrant shee sues for the Divorce first .  For her take no thought sir . The intrest I haue in her Tutresse , with the work I haue fashion'd vpon my Anvil , shall bring all to your wish . I expect to heare from him instantly .  Sir , I professe my affection flies eagerly at her . Shee takes me deepely , how euer you haue mistaken one another . Oh here comes my Anvile ! Mee thinkes his very countenance invites me to strike him ▪ though I know hee dos me good service now .  How prithee ?  You shall know all . He has sent your cast whore before sir Paul .  The successe shall vnfold it in good time to your and my benefit ? doubt not , if she but follow her instructions .  Nay sir , indeed the fault is yours most extreamly now . Pray sir forbeare to straine beyond a Womans patience .  Madame , I see too much of your vexation ; and indeed I suffer too much with you . As I am a Gentleman I will giue you right frendly Councill , if you will heare me .  This will make to my purpose .  Madame , I haue not vtterance to declare my acceptance of your loue . It must therefore be lock'd vp in my breast , the treasure of my heart . Now for the condition vpon which your Divorce depends , we must see that perform'd , and then —  You speake nobly .  Well then , before your discreet neighbour M. Bulfinch here . If you haue not your will in this , I will disclaime in your favour hereafter . Sir , the condition is ( as you may remember —  To which I promise my ready helpe , onely I must not appeare in the businesse .  As how sir ?  And thanke you sir . Now every man to his part M. Widgine , You haue both your sisters and my best directions already , which I doubt not but with the helpe of your Governor you will make good vse of . Madame will you in , and but wish well to our proceedings , and trouble your thoughts no further .  Wanton , you haue begun propitiously : Proceede but confidently , and I 'le warrant thee a wealthy husband by it , or a composition that may proue the better purchase .  Right . Shee do's but hold off till then , and that wilfully ; because shee feares it is for Constances loue onely , that her Husband desires the Divorce .  T is most fairely omenous . Come Lady . Hee cannot . but bee at hand ; and our stay may doe hurt , ( You remember the Doctors lodging I told you of , and sir Phillips appointment to meet you there an houre hence ?  No more then ; away . Fare you well sweet Creature .  As I haue truth in me , I am most credibly told so . Mary the worst is , her Vncle is so mad at their escape , that hee will neuer giue consent to the match , whereby her portion will bee lesse .  Make you noe more doubt of that , then I doe Madame , who haue vpon the report of it already , prepard the Learned of the Ciuill Law , those that you nominated of your good acquaintance , and are forward to doe you the best office ,  who haue appointed to meet before the IUdge of the Archdeacons Court presently , whither I haue promised to bring , and will attend you .  Sir Phillip hath wa●ning already Madame ; and without needlesse processe will bee there before you , and wait your comming . So that my selfe and his seruant , who haue neuer beene both absent from one of your companies , since your Mariage , iustly deposing you neuer did the reallest Rite of Mariage , the bed office , Madame ; you both consenting , and desiring a Diuorce , It is instantly graunted , without any proceedings in Law . So that all will be ended in three whispers . Ods pitty , looke who here is .  O good Madame , hurt not your selfe with anger better laugh it out .  Forbeare sweet Lady , let him be mad by himselfe .  What thinke you of your Brothers successe , now Madame ?  Looke you now Madame . See who here comes .  Shee is a Holdup her selfe , if I mistake not her name .  You haue made a large relation Master Widgine , and a pleasant , I doubt not .  Lady doe you thinke of the time ?  I am your seruent Lady —  Where 's this hospitable Knight that invites Strangers . I meane meere Strangers , that hee knowes not . Shew me the Lad of bounty . I hunger not for his Sapper as I doe to salute him .  He dos not meane to ieare vs dos he ?  Are you of the invited sir ?  What are they can yee tell sir ?  I , You 'll marre all if you laugh .  Not a Riall sir not I .  Deuonshire or Cornwall sir .  Sir what will you say , if this Gentlewoman conuert the Spaniard , turne him true English subiect , and present him to you with the oaths of Alegiance , & Supremacie in his mouth presently ?  Very well sir .  It might doe well if ( as hee confesses himselfe ) he had not made all too sure , as well within as without .  Lady giue me leaue , if I haue strayn'd a point of friendship , it was your loue gaue the strenght to my wit . Fit . My loue ?  Your loue indeed Lady . Which ( and which Cupid pardon me for ) now , that I see I may enioy , I am not so eagerly taken with , yet if you will —  To cleare that point , doe you know the Minister ?  Then to continue sir Pauls Metamorphosis ? I le draw him out of this Doctor . Is not this hee ?  Faith I foresaw an vnto wardnesse in the Match : which if you repent the breach of , there 's your Licence ; and the way to Church lyes before you .  O that 's done already . What are you agreed ? 