 Well sir . And what said Master Lucklesse ?  The very same sir . But I beginne to call him now , as I must call him hereafter . Ladies doe not call their husbands , as they are Knights : as sir Phillip , sir Timothy , or sir Gregory . Did you ever heare my Lady Squelch call her husband sir Paul ? No . But master Squelch . Indeed all others must sir them by their Christen names ; because they are Knights , and to bee knowne from other men : onely their owne wiues must master them , by their Sirnames ; because they are Ladies , and will not know them from other men . But to our busines . What said he to you ?  Nay , What said you to him first ? I loue to heare things in order .  As I bad you , Clotpoll ? what was that ? Shall I ever mould thee into a Gentleman Vsher thinkst thou , that stand'st so ? Come forwards sir , and repeat .  This was very well : word for word as I instructed . But did you worship him so much ?  Now sir . His answere ? in his owne words .  Did hee say so ?  Well Howdie get you downe . And doe you heare Howdee ? If sir Paul Squelch come , bring him vp .  I bad you learne to call me Madame .  You shall forsooth Madame . T is but a day to 't ; and I hope one may be a Lady one day before her time .  In the meane time , let me study my remembrances for after mariage .  Imprimis , To haue the whole sway of the house ; and all domesticall affaires ; as of accounts of houshold chardges , placing and displacing of all seruants in generall ; To haue free liberty , to goe on all my visits ; and though my knights occasions bee never so vrgent , and mine of no moment , yet  to take from him the command of his Coach ; To be in speciall fee with his best trusted seruant ; nor to let one liue with him , that will not bewray all his counsells to mee . To study and practise the Art of iealousie ; To faine anger , melancholly , or sicknesse , to the life . These are Arts that women must bee well practis'd in , ere they can attaine to wisedome , and ought to be the onely study of a widow , from the death of her first husband , to the second : From the second to the third , matters of deeper moment ; From the third to the fourth deeper yet ; And so proportionably to the seauenth , if shee be so long blest with life : But of these I may finde time hereafter to consider in order as they fall . Besides , in all , to be singular in our will ; to raigne , gouerne , ordaine lawes and breake 'hem , make quarrells and maintaine ' him ; professe truthes , deuise falshoods ; protest obedience , but study nothing more then to make our husbands so ; Controle , controuert , contradict , and be contrary to all conformity : To which end wee must be sure to be arm'd alwayes with prick and praise of the deceased ; and cary the Inuentory of our goods , and the grosse summe of our Dowry perpetually in our mouthes . Then dos a husband tickle the spleene of a woman , when shee can anger him to please him ; chide him to kisse him ; Mad him to humble him ; make him stiffe necked to supple him ; and hard-hearted to breake him ; to set him vp , and take him downe , and vp againe , and downe againe , when , and as often as we list .  I marry , now thou say'st well .  Well said againe .  Tridewell ! O it is Sir Phillips Kinsman . I haue heard him speake much good of him ; and entreated mee to giue him good respect ; which were enought to marre his entertainment , had I not another purpose of mine owne , that may proue as ill . Bring him vp Howdee .  I that was very well . This Howde● doe I meane with a cast Gowne to put in apparell , and make my Gentleman Vsher ; Not onely for the aptnesse of his name , to goe on my visits ; but for his proportionable talent of wit and manners .  Sir the name of him , you come from , is warrant sufficient to make your welcome here : All that is here being his .  I vnderstand you come from Sir Phillip Luckles .  Too well Sir ? How meane you ?  Right Sir . and him onely .  Beshrew mee but it is ; and farther too Sir . Hee has all wooed and wonne me .  This is pretty !  Pray Sir deale freely with me . What respect  Moues you to make this strong disswasion ?  Is it your care of me ? or loue of him ?  And how this should proceed from care of me  Falls not into my vnderstanding Sir .  Sir I haue consider'd  Before , and in your speech , and since ; and cannot  By all that can be said remoue a thought .  I lou'd him not for words : Nor will I vse  Words against yours : 't were poore expression  Of loue to boast it . T is enough I know it .  Boasters of loue , how can we Louers call ,  When most of such loue one no more then all .  Nor would I haue you to expect a rayling ,  To say you basely wrong the Gentleman :  A way so common , common women vse it .  But this Sir I will say , I were too blame  If I should thinke your loue to him were lesse  Then the great care of me , you seeme to vrge ,  As you pretend it is .  You are his Kinseman nearly ; and reputed ,  By his owne mouth , his best of chosen friends ;  My selse an vtter stranger , one from whom  You neuer had , or can expect least good .  And why you should , for a respect so contrary ,  Call my poore wit in question to beleeue you ,  Is most vnconscionable .  Nor will I fondly thinke you meant to seeke ,  Crossing his Match , to make it for your selfe :  Both for my knowen unworthinesse ; and your  Deprauing him being no possible way  To make me thinke the better of your worth .  But I forgiue , and charitably thinke  All this brought no ill purpose ; pretty Pageantry  Which may hereafter , 'mong our mariage mirth ,  Fill vp a Scene : for now I le take no notice .  Indeed I will not : you may , if you please ,  And tell your Cuz how haynously I take it .  Sir I haue , enough .  And craue but leaue to speake this little to you ,  Which shall by heauen be vncontrol'd as Fate .  If I shall find him bad , I 'le blame my fortune :  Neuer repent or thanke you for your counsell .  If I shall finde him good ; and all this false ,  VVhich you so violently haue vrg'd against him ;  I le loue him nere the more , nor you the worse :  For I am not so poore , nor weakly spiritted ,  That should all friends to whom my faith is bound ,  Say on their knowledge , that all this were true ,  And that one houres protraction of our Mariage  Should mak 't appeare , that I would giue allowance  To all their bugbeare reasons , to deferre  That houre the vniting of our hands : because  Our hearts are link'd by the Diuinest lawes .  What ayles the Gent ?  Sir How d ee ?  Not you Sir .  You are not well Sir .  Sir .  You are not going Sir ?  Gone in a dreame ▪ Well , I perceiue this iugling .  This straine was onely to explore the strength  Of my affection to my lucklesse Knight .  For which , if both their Cunnings I not fit ,  Let me be call'd the barren wife of wit .  The strangenes of this Gentlemans action will not out of my mind yet . Sir Phillip could not but haue a hand in it . Do's he repent his bargaine already ; and desire to bee quit with losse of his earnest ? T is but his faith and troth .  I can not tell . Perhaps to inuite me forth into the ayre of Hideparke or Maribone ; or else —  That was well remembred brother .  This sodaine importunity confirmes my former doubt : He thinkes his Scare-crow will make me keepe off  now ; but hee is cossend . Well sir . He shall find me obedient to his hand . I am in all prepar'd to meet his purposes ; Though , Brother I had thought to had conference this Morning with sir Paul Squelch touching a match for you .  And a good match too brother ; Sir Pauls Neece : on whom , hee , being childles , meanes to bestow a large Dowry .  Hee is a right good man . Within there .  En. Howd .  Bid Flaps your fellow bring my Fan and Masque .  But shee is very faire brother , and very hansome and the prettiest innocent countrey thing withall . Doe I want nothing here ?  But where 's my Wimple forsooth ?  And shee is very young , not aboue fifteene , brother .  How this fellow stayes ! Goe you .  And sings , and speakes so pretty northenly they say .  What makes you stay so ? I feare you haue beene among my sweet meats .  Is this my Wimple ? Doe you bring Carpenters tooles to dresse me withall .  I shall teach you to know a difference betweene  gentlewomens geere and Carpenters tooles . I shall   Yes brother shee is Northern , and speakes so : for shee has euer liu'd in the Countrey , till this last weeke , her Vncle sent for her vp to make her his child , cut of the Bishoprick of Durham .  And brother —  You had beene chiefly sir inuited , had we not stolne a day from Time , to haue done a● others part at Church , to which in your absence , I intreated our worthy friend Mr : App Apprehension Bulfinch here .  Shee is not here sir . Is shee Howdee ?  Good sir Paul , I haue not seene you thus distemperd . What afflicts you ?  Who your young Neece that came lately out of the Countrey ?  Had you spard this Protestation , Sir , you might haue dissembl'd your loue to me the better .  T is said sir .  Some of your old companions haue brought you a fit of Mirth . But if they enter to make a Tauerne of my house , I le add a voice to their consort shall drowne all their fidling . What are they ?  Locke vp the dores , and keepe them out .  Shall I not bee Master of my owne house ?  Passion of my heart .  M. Nonsense , you haue preuaid . You see I am content . But what I purpose , Fate shall not preuent .  You wrong your honour sir , your most humble Hand-maid .  I neuer saw him before this day , nor he me . These are tricks and studied fooleries to abuse me —  Are you so sensible of her losse ? —  Out of my doores thou Miscreant .  Avoyd my house , and that presently , I le claw your skin  off after your Liuory else , and make you so much nakeder then time makes all other seruing Creatures .  Am I ieerd ? flowted to my face ? Is this fit vsage for a Wife ?  A Husband ? a Hangman .  Am I scornd and reuild ?  Made a property for laughter ?  Haue I no friend , no Seruant to command ?  Has my Ladiship made me so lamentable a thing , that I haue lost the power of a Mistris ? You sir , run and call some frends to succour me , or I le thratle you .  What will become of me ? you , VVood-cock , Ninihammer .  Can you call me sister , and see me abus'd thus ?  O scorne vpon scorne , torment vpon torment . Let me rather be buried aliue then beare this . 〈◊〉 Shee gets loose . Slaues , Rascals , get yee all out of my doores . By vertue of my nayles , I charge yee . ●e not leaue an Eye or a No●e amongst yee   Oh how am I wrong'd .  Sir I haue perceiu'd humanity in you and doe loue it in you . But I know not what to doe , nor whom to heare . I am fallen into the pit of bondage , and will take any course for my Redemption . Oh Master Bulfinch .  Sir I am wrongd beyond expression . This Gentleman is an eye witnes of my suffrings . Pray come in Sir . I will heare your counsell together with this Gentlemans aduise .  Gentlemen , you now know the calamity I suffer vnder . And you haue shew'd mee the best way to comfort : for which I thanke you . I haue giuen you my resolution for a Divorce , vpon condition . Before which , I must promise you nothing sir . But I assure you in the meane time , you stand prime in my affection : for I haue in all found you a right worthy Gentleman .  Sir , I will make good more then I now may promise .  It relishes a little ● do much of womanly wilfulnesse I confesse . But all my wilfulnesse ( that I 'le promise you sir ) shall die in the end of this businesse .  May I beleeue it , Good sir ? may I be so happy , that my brother has her ?  Hang him Clod . My will shall be a portion sufficient to my brother , I care not , though hee giue her not a penny , so VVat has the Wench .  But the other side must be summond by processe .  T was time you found me sir ; you might ha' mistaken my name else . For within this heure , I might haue return'd the ancient title of your friend , and Awdery Fitchow .  Where are your wits sir ? you come vpon me indeed ● What Neece ? What 's the matter ?  Sure the old Gentleman is fallen mad . What hath happend ?  Your ●re an vnciuill greasie Companion , to vpbraid and reuile me thus in my owne house .  Hee makes me forget my selfe by his example . Sir you are a Commissioner for the Peace I take it . Do's it become a Man of your place and grauity , to fly out in these extreames ? You spend too much breath in these lowd noates , very hurtfull to the Lungs , If you will fall into a lower Key , and speake peaceably , I will answere you .  Will you beleeue mee sir ? you may : For t is Truth , as I haue any ; And before this vvorthy Gentleman ; I neuer savv your Neece in my life ; only I haue heard shee is a pretty Gentlevvoman : likely to make a good Match , for vvhich I told my brother of her , and vvould haue treated vvith you for her , could I haue spoken vvith you as I vvish'd by tvvo or three Messages . But vvhither my brother has got her , or wh●r hee , or shee is of my ovvne knowledge , I cannot say directly .  Well my Lord Innekeepers second Sonne : Do's your Provender prick you ?  out you Curry-combe .  How pray ?  Ha , ha , ha .  Much the better , that it vexes him so : Sciruy foule unouth'd fellow .  Being your flesh brother , her nearest affinity of blood runs in my veines . Therefore with a sisters loue I embrace you , and bid you welcome .  I know it is shee by her tongue , though I neuer heard her before . Nor euer feare sweet sister , wee shall be all frends shortly .  No : I meane to giue him my Maid , and a hundred Marks with her , besides all shee has about her .  Well said Howdee : for my Ladiship is eene at the last gaspe . I am to bee Diuorc'd within this halfe houre . But your proceedings brother ? How did shee receiue you at first ?  I thanke you sir .  Enough brother , no more . I vnderstand you .  Enough I say .  So , ha you done now ?  Yet againe .  I will instantly along vvith you . Hewdee come you vvith me . Brother , the search hath past this house already . You any goe in vvith your Svveet-heart , and stay here safely . Goe in , and keepe close , till I send to meet me at Supper .  Now sir when you please .  This is not to bee endured : cheating , and vile abuse , This contract can not bee lawfull . One person mistaken for another a lawfull impediment to be diuorc'd for , though they were married .  I say this is no lawfull contract : And though we are legally diuorc'd , yet neither he nor I may lawfully marry , while we both liue , hauing beene lawfully married . And till you can disproue that , sir I le forbid your Banes good sir Phillip , and lay your hopes a cooling , frendly Master Tridewell , for your loue in managing this businesse .  Sir you cannot enioy me , not he her , lesse you can disproue  the lawfulnesse of our former Mariage .  T is not so long since , but I can remember his face .  It is . But is not hee a lawfull Minister ; I would know that .  Would you doe this Master Tridewell ?  No sir . First get my brother free of his contract , and then a Licence with your owne name , and I le waite on you to Church , as soone as you will . 