 Faith cosen , I take it as my fortune ; and am fully bent on the aduenture .  You speake sir out of some vnfortunate examples , and your extraordinary care of me . But truth is , all deswasion comes too late ; and all vrgings against it are now vncharitable : For wee are already Man and Wife .  Lustily promis'd sir . Absolutely contracted .  I hope you 'll see our Mariage . I sent indeed to bid you .  Nay good cosen : I intended you my principall Guest . Wee 'll haue all very priuate : not aboue foure or fiue friends more .  Indeed this is very abrupt .  But will you trauell at these yeares Mr Widgine ?  VVell then , Brother two dayes hence , will you trauell ?  What things are these ! I shall marry into a fine stocke ! How vntimely some considerations fall into my mind ▪ My Cosens councell , which hath ever beene oraculously good ; against which I violently beare my selfe , to mixe my blood amongst a race of fooles . Had but these thoughts beene mine but one day past , they had preuented all that may proue dangerous in this , so great and doubtfull vndertaking .  Who is it ? Doe you not know her ?  Goe bring her vp . Good brother VVidgine , fly into the next roome , with your Governour . I le waite on you presently .  There 's no recalling time ; and vowes of this high nature are no triffles .  I am the man Lady .  Most true .  What meane you Gentlewoman ?  Nor what neither . Sure my name 's abus'd .  No . Nor any faithfull promise neither .  I pray speake nearer to my vnderstanding : whom may you suggest to be the woman so much forgotten ?  Yes Lady so well , that I am sorry , that a gentlewoman of your good seeming should haue to doe for so light a peece of vanity . Leaue going o' the devills Errants : His kingdomes large enough , and too much peopled already .  I good faith am I .  Farewell old Whiskin . Slid I le marry out o' the way ; t is time I thinke : I shall bee tane vp for whores meat else . Constance ! shee had a Bastard tother day too . What a mischeiuous Maw has this shee Caniball that gapes for mee ! Slight a common Trader , with I know not how many ! I maruell shee was left out of Cupids Muster . Sure shee bribd the Ballat-maker : One that I haue paid at all times too ; here 's one , there 's tother ▪ And now shee heares I am towards mariage pretends a claime to mee . And what a Minister shee had procur'd ! A Divell in a most gentlewomanlike apparition . It had beene well to haue pumpd her . Is shee gone ?  Her Coache ! Coaches must needs bee common , when their cariages are so . By this light , Oliver , a Bawd ; a very Bawd . Where 's my brother Widgine , and his Governour , Anvile ! They are wholsomer company o' the two , yet .  And not too late I hope sir Paul . Wee may yet carry them to bed with vs ▪   Hee is doubtfull , but yet hee is sure hee knowes him . What a Bulfinch is this I sure t is his language they call bull-speaking .  Most perfect Nonsense ! this is a finer youth then tother . My wiues acquaintance are most answerable to her Kindred .  Constance !  Sir Paul , vpon my faith I am ignorant of any such wrong . And , for her part , should shee fare amisse , I should suffer in her iniury equally with your selfe : for I professed to you , I did loue the Lasse so well ; and at the first sight , that had I not beene otherwise allotted , and indeed contracted to her , from whom now there is no starting , shee should haue beene my Bride , if all my loue and fortune might haue wonne her .  Dissemble ?  Nay good sir stay , and share in our ill Banquet . Harke , some friend I hope . Looke sirah . —  Breake them open and let them in —  Am not I the Master of it and you —  More lights , and let them enter . Gentlemen take your places . Sir Paul to night forget your sorrow . So will I mine , though I renue ● tomorrow . Come sit sit . Mistris please you .  Then wee are friends ; and shee 's my Doue againe .  Nor Loue , ●or Fate dare ● accuse ,  For that my Loue did mere fuse ;  But oh mine owne unworthinesse ,  That durst presume so mickle blisse .  It was too much for me to loue  A Man , so like the Gods aboue ;  An Angels shape , a Saint-like voice ,  Are to Diuine for Humane choice .  Oh had I wishly giu'n my heart ,  For to haue lou'd him but in part ;  Sought onely to enioy his face ;  Or any one peculiar Grace  Of Foot , of Hand , of Lip , or Ey ,  I might haue liu'd where now I dye .  But I presuming all to choose  Am now condemned all to loose .  T is well perform'd . Now we would gladly know . To whom we owe our thankes .  Light and all faire respect be giuen vnto them . —  Nay brother giue them all their free pleasures . By your leaue you shall stay .  I st possible ! Did hee for that so earnestly deswade me from her this Morning ?  Who was the other .  Constance ! May that name in all other women bee accursed beyond themselues . Hell it selfe could not haue vapor'd such an error forth , as I am lost in . Constance ! why was that name made here , that Saint-like Maids , when it brought to my mind a Diuels , nay worse , a Whores ? to whom before was giuen .  Where is shee ? I will endure no longer till I see her .  Gone Villaine .  You shall haue mine sir Paul and my company so farre to see her ; and whether their presentation were iest or earnest , I will not rest till I be satisfied ; My Coach . I le make no stay Sweet-heart . Shee 's gone .  Nay sir Paul . I protest .  Wee ll , ●●e you to the Gate by your leaue Ex Omnes .  What has shee written here ? It is the same hand I read in the Morning .  I am not your counterfeit , or vnchast Constance ; But that only Constance , that truely loue you , and that will , if you liue not for me , die for you . Oh that I could at any price or penance now redeeme one day ! Neuer was hasty Match sooner repented .  I will . But is it time ? Brother , would you would doe me the fauour to inquire .  Captaine , deale fairely with me . By what meanes ioyned you with this society ? or how grew so soone your trust or great acquaintance with them ?  Good Captaine trauell not so farre in your relation : but come home againe to the businesse .  But to the matter Captaine ; where met you my Cosen ?  Sir Paul Squelch ?  What was that Captaine ?  Not a word I , Captaine vpon my word . What a Rascal 's this ! to the point good Captaine .  But may this hold good in Law Captaine ?  Though the former part of his discourse , was a most egregious lye , yet the last hath some sound of pleasure in it : which I may make vse of .  Nay Cosen , for the seruice hee hath done you to night , and loue of mee , pardon him this time . Besides , his charge is in the house , at whose charge he liues . You will both shame and vndoe him .  To what end brother : for what cause ?  How ! am I denied ? To my wish .  At large you shall . For though it bee my wedding night you shall be my Bedfellow . Lights there . Good night brother .  Cosen , I vnderstand you at full . And am glad that occasion hath pointed out a probability to lead me out of this labirinth ; and you to your desired end .  Shee has put me into 't her selfe too .  For which Cosen , if I take not occasion to keepe my selfe from her , all nights , dayes , and times hereafter , may the act of our bodies beget prodigeous monsters and nothing else .  May wee proue but as certaine as you are confident in out other proiect , for recalling Constance to her selfe , and mee    then to her , these fetters being shaken off , may they proue golden ones to you , I shall not envie you .  I le freely resigne your wish to you , and adde halfe I haue to augment her estate to you . Oh I tremble to thinke on her : her presence shakes the house like an earthquake : the outrage of Prentizes is not so terrible to a Bawd or a Cutpurse , as her voyce is to me . Yet to you shee may be calme as the breath of friendship , and milde as the midnight whispers of chast loue .  Who has he sent ? before whose Worship ?  The Mistery , Gentlemen ?  Nay , if shee be not Mistris of her Art , there is no deceit among Trades men , no bribery among Officers , no bankrupt out of Ludgate , nor Whore out of Bridewell .  Of which here comes the truest testimony .  Doe you talke of turning away my Man ? You shall give me leaue to turne away your Howdee first , and then put off my , God a mercy how dost thou .  A Wife ? a Witch .  Out pusse .  Ah , ha ha .  A ha , ha .  Ah ha , ha ,  Stirre but a foot sirah , or vtter but a sillable , and I le cut your thratle pipe .  Doe as I bid you , or —  Dost thou feare her or me . Do 't or I —  So he shall sir , and so will all ; but you must put vs in . Beginne .  O no Master Bulfinch , you shall make one of our Councill .  Come bouncing after my boyes .  Sir . May you reape the vvhole harvest of your fruitfull wishes .  Ye● my most delicate Doctor .  My life and honour be her Guard , and your security .  But doe you loue me Constance ?  And will you be my Woman ?  But you will not goe away with mee now , if I request you ?  What from your Gouernesse , your Vncle , and all the World ?  Come , since you trust me so well , wee two will not part till wee are lawfully made one .  Saue you sir . Are you the Worshipfull of the house ?  How sir ? —  You doe not mock me sir ?  What 's this ?  Is this a Parrat or a Popingay ?  Doe you know vvhat you say sir ?  If I did I vvould not seeke him here sir .  This is some inchaunted Place , and the people are charm'd . I haue mistaken the house sure .  Hee vvill proue the greatest stranger here himselfe I thinke , for he is not at home sir . I am a Guest as you are , and vvould be as glad to see him .  This fellow speakes .  How meane you M. Doctor ?  If we had but a Iustice among vs to Examine 'hem , it might passe the time well till sir Paule came .  This is a witty fellow .  T is a Spaniard indeede .  This is excellent !  Nor a Rialls worth amongst vs of any language but shiere English .  I like the change well , and thanke you sir .  Sir Paul I thanke you . 