 All the world o're ha' you bin already ?  In the Antipodes ?  I thinke there 's none beyond it ; and that Mandevile  Whose excellent worke this is , was th' onely man  That e're came neare it .  Beyond all English legges that I can read of .  Drake was a Dy'dapper to Mandevile ,  Candish , and Hawkins , Furbisher , all our voyagers  Went short of Mandevile : But had he reach'd  To this place here — yes here — this wildernesse ,  And seene the trees of the Sunne and Moone , that speake ,  And told King Alexander of his death , he then  Had left a passage ope for Travailers :  That now is kept and guarded by wild beasts ,  Dragons , and Serpents , Elephants white and blue  Vnicornes , and Lyons of many colours ,  And monsters more , as numberlesse , as namelesse .  Read here else : can you read ?  Is it not true ?  Read here againe then : it is written here ,  That you may live foure or five hundred yeere .  Since you speake reverently of him , say on .  What people sir ( J pray proceed ) what people  Are they of the Antipodes ? are they not such  As Mandevile writes of , without heads or necks ,  Having their eyes plac'd on their shoulders , and  Their mouths amidst their breasts ?  The furthest off .  Ha' they good game I pray Sir ?  Hugh , hugh , hugh .  Hugh , hugh , hugh .  No I could heare you a whole fortnight , but  A Bowle on the table .   Let 's loose no time , pray talke on as we passe .  Gi' mee 't . What 's he ? One sent   Wee 'll not be stayd .  A health then to the willing winds and seas ,  And all that steere towards th' Antipodes .  Are we arriv'd so farre ?  What worlds of lands and Seas have I past over ,  Neglecting to set downe my observations ,  A thousand thousand things remarkable  Have slipt my memory , as if all had beene  Meere shadowy phantasmes , or Phantasticke dreames .  But how long doe you thinke I slept ?  Eight Moneths —  I thinke I have read it in their famous History .  I doe remember , as we past the Verge  O' th' upper world , comming downe , down-hill ,  The setting Sunne then bidding them good night ,  Came gliding easily downe by us ; and strucke  New day before us , lighting us our way ;  But with such heate , that till he was got farre  Before us , we even melted .  I never was at London .  I doe remember that relation ,  As if you had but given it me this morning .  Pray what are those ?  And what are those ?  Do men of such faire years here go to schoole ?  Have you no young men schollers , sir I pray ;  When we have beard lesse doctors ?  T is a wise nation ; and the piety  Of the young men most rare and commendable ,  Yet give me as a stranger leave to beg  Their liberty this day ; and what they loose by 't ,  My father when he goes to schoole , shall answer .  I thanke you Sir , for the poore mens release ,  It was the first request that I have made  Since I came in these confines .  All I have seene since my arrivall , are  Wonders . But your humanity excells .  I have not known such down right equity ,  If he proceeds as he begins , I le grace him . —  Most admirable Justice .  Kneele downe  Againe . Give me a sword some body .  Give me a sword , I say , must I call thrice ?  Yours ! what are you ?  He may be loyall ; he 's a wondrous plaine one ,  I le none o' this ,  Give me that Princely weapon .  It is inchanted .  Rise up our trusty well beloved Knight .  My followers , where are they ?  T is well , lead on the way .  And so I le cherish , or severely punish .  What is my game ?  Boy did he say ?  This custome I have seene with us .  Call you this justice ?  Here 's much to be reform'd , young man thy vertue  Hath wonne my favour , goe , thou art at large .  And you sir , take that sober seeming wanton ,  And clap her up , till I heare better of her ,  I le strip you of your office and your eares else .  They are an ignorant nation ,  And have my pitty mingled with correction :  And therefore , damsell ( for you are the first  Offender I have noted here , and this  Your first offence ( for ought I know )  Goe and transgresse no more ,  And as you finde my mercy sweet , see that  You be not cruell to your grandmother ,  When she returnes from beare-baiting .  And what are these ?  It doth amaze me .  They passe over .   What can her husband be , when shee 's a Fencer ?  T is most miraculous and wonderfull .   Man scould within .  Rogues , Varlets , Harlots , ha you done  Your worst , or would you drowne me ? would you take my life ?   Women within .  Ducke him againe , ducke him againe .  What noise is this ?  A man for scolding ?  Is this a man ?  I aske not by his beard , but by his teares .  Sure these are dreames ,  Nothing but dreames .  Can men and women be so contrary  In all that we hold proper to each sex ?  'T will aske long time and study to reduce  Their manners to our government .  Doe such eate Pompions ?  Call you these Courtiers ? They are rude silken Clowns ;  As course within , as water-men or Car-men .  From Court ?  Are these but labouring men , and tother Courtiers ?  Before I reigne  A Moneth among them , they shall change their notes ,  Or I le ordaine a course to change their Coats .  I shall have much to doe in reformation .  What if I crav'd ? a Counsell from New England ?  The old will spare me none .  Will you make me mad ?  Here 's a wise businesse !  How 's this ?  T is monstrous , this .  Ha! what for thieves ?  Still worse and worse ! abhominable ! horrid !  You shall not get it him .  Doe you provide whips , brands ; and ordaine death ,  For men that suffer under fire , or shipwracke ,  The losse of all their honest gotten wealth :  And finde reliefe for Cheaters , Bawdes , and Thieves ?  I le hang yee all .  T is a faire protestation : And my mercy  Meets your submission . See you merit it  In your conformity .  Stand up you have our favour .  What voyce was that ?  A Crowne secures not an unlawfull marriage .  I have a wife already .  How know you that ?  Indeed she 's wondrous like her .  Mandivell writes  Of people neare the Antipodes , call'd Gadlibriens :  Where on the wedding-night the husband hires  Another man to couple with his bride ,  To cleare the dangerous passage of a Maidenhead .  She may be of that Serpentine generation ,  That stings oft times to death ( as Mandevile writes )  I am what you are pleas'd to make me ; but withall , so ignorant of mine owne condition ; whether I sleepe , or wake , or talke , or dreame ; whether I be , or be not ; or if I am , whether I doe , or doe not any thing : for I have had ( if I now wake ) such dreames , and been so far transported in a long and tedious voyage of sleep , that I may fear my manners can acquire no welcome , where men understand themselves .  How ! your daughter sir ?  I thinke so .  Yes .  Indeed I finde me well .  And from our Travailes in th' Antipodes .  We are not yet arriv'd from off the Seas :  But on the waves of desprate feares we roame  Vntill your gentler hands doe waft us home . 