 IS it possible that halfe this can be true , that a halfe brother of mine can be made such an asse all over ?  S'daggers death , it has as good as veez'd me out o' my wits to think on 't : was my vathers blood zo quaisome to him , ( with a mischiefe to 't ) that he must let it out to be a gentleman , because his mother was one ( by her owne report : ) for our own parts we nother know nor care where hence she coame , nor whither she 's gone , but dead she is ) she brought my vather a good purse o' mony , and kept another in store it seems , till she could keep 't no longer , and then bestow'd it well and wisely upon Chitty vace her zonne , to make him a geantleman , and told him what great house he coame on by her side ; for shee was a Striker forzooth , and ga'n directions to vinde an old Uncle of his here in Cuckold-shire , one Mr. Striker : but virst shee bade him put his zelfe into vashion , and bee sure to beare's zelfe like a Gentleman ; and he has ta'ne a wise course to compasse it , it zeems : I warrant he ha made a voole o' his voure hundred pound by this time .  Ah .  Ah .  Ha , ha , ha .  Ah .  But I wo'not zee'n yet as voule a Clowne , as I am , and as vine a gentleman , as he is , I have a tricke i' my skonce to make a yonger brother o' me .  I ha 't , and 't is a vine one , I came to London to zeeke the voole my brother , and ha the same directions from our Curate , ( to whom my mother told all ) that Tim had to vinde his uncle Strikers house , and I ha quir'd it out ; and this is it , and thou zhalt zee what I chill doe now : wh'are within .  By your leave vorsooth , I would speake with the Mr. o' the house : I understand his worships name is Mr. Striker .  Nor doe I come to zell'n any ; my comming is of a dead bodyes errand vorsooth .  I pray vorsooth , and you bee old enough ( as it zeems you be ) to remember when my mother was a maid , did you know a zuster of Mr. Strikers that was married into Zummerzet shire ?  Her Cursen name was Audry , she zed , and a Striker she as bevore she was married ; but my vather made a Hoyden .  Yes Hoyden , zo I zay ; there be very good vokes o' th name , as you shall well know ; I cham one my zelfe , and she neede not be asham'd I wusse o' the kin she coame on , to hugger mugger it as she did to her dying day .  Yes vaith she 's dead , and as sumptiously buried , though I zay 't , as any yeomans wife within ten mile of Tanton , any time these ten and twenty yeare .  I tell you , my vather married her ; and I should bee her zonne I thinke .  Coulter keep thy countenance Coulter , I le make 'hem believe I am her very naturall zonne , & zee what will come on 't .  If he should dye now Coulter , and make me his heire ?  What 's the matter ? by your leave which is my zick Uncle ? are you scuffling for 's money before he be dead .  No sir , we come with no zick intendment on neither nother zide ; but an you be Mr. Striker , we are o' your zide , an 't bee to cut all the rest into Pot-hearbs .  Zay but the word then , and have at 'hem .  We be Cursen folke as good as your zelfe , and get you out o' the house by mine Vncles leave here .  Or if I baste you not well a fine , and Lamb-skinne your jackets till your bones rattle i' your hides , then zay cha bewrai'd the house I coame on .  And why not I your Nephew ; han't she told you , and ha' not I told you as much as the matter 's worth , and doe yee meane to vlee from the bargaine ?  Is 't come to this now ?  Agreed : well sir , vor this time I ha no more to zay t'yee , since you be so budge : but he that made you zave you   Here ? thou mockst he is not here : sure these be all Lords I thinke .  Is 't possible ? icha made a sweet jaunt after you & have I vound a vine voole o' thee : where 's thy voure hundred pound ? is that made a voole on too troe : where 's the zartificate my mother ga' thee to vinde thine uncle ? gi' me that , I hill see what I can doe wi' it .  Complement lyes , I can complement dagger out o'sheath , an I zet on 't .  Yes , Mr. Thomas , and what zay you to that ; and as good a Mr. as the best o'yee , and you goe to that ; for by uds shall judge me , I think you are all but a company of Cheaterlings ; and if you doe not give the voole my brother sartifaction for the wrongs you ha'd one him , and me in him , I le canvas it out o' the carkasses o'zome o'yee , by uds daggers death will I . Draw Coulter , & amongst 'hem .  O shall I zoe , put up againe Coulter .  Cha mich a doe to vorbeare beating o' thee yet , my vingers doe zo itch at thee .  But now I thinke on 't Coulter , we 'll have all againe , & by a quieter way ; and teach 'hem to licke hony , catch birds with Chaffe , or go to plow with dogs .  Doe they jeere , let 'hem jeer & gibe too ; I le vetch ones Warrant shall out jeere 'hem all , and he be above ground .  You zay very well sir ; zay well is good , but doe well is better . Le ts zee what you will doe now .  Nay I 'chill look to you : sirrah come in my hand .  Zheart Coulter we be vallen into the Bakers ditch .  I am an honest man , and a true man for all that , and I thought you the vittest to make my complaint to because you were the next Justice , to as pestilence a peece of villany as ever you were Master of in all your life : I come but vor justice , and to pay vor what I take , and 't be avore hand , here it is , whether it be vor your Clarke or your zelfe , who makes or meddles with it , your man has my complaint in writing , pray let me have your warrant .  Vor cause that he is uncle to a voole that I ha' to my brother , and I thought I might be so bold wee'n , and he was not against it at virst , till you were gone , and then he bad me goe zeek better testimony , and so I went and vound my brother Tim , his owne zusters zonne I assure yee .  Where he was made such a Tim , as ne're was heard on in Tonton , amongst a many Cheaters : by masse here are a couple o 'm .  No sir , I am not mistaken I but I take 'hem I , where I vinde 'hem I : And I charge your justiceship with 'hem I , til they bring out my brother I .  Done : nay they have done and undone him amongst 'hem . And I think devour'd him quick too vor he is lost , & no where to be vound .  Zo you did , but what then did me the rest , but pli'd me , and my man Coulter here with wine , and zack , and something in 't , I dare be zwore that laid us a zleep , when we mistrusted nothing but vaire play : oh speak Coulter , oh .  And then the Mr o' the house came home , & made a monstrous wonderment for the losse of his wife ; he could not vinde her he zed . and zo he vaire and vlatly thrust us out o'doores , and is gone a hunting after his wife agen : speak Coulter .  And to take 'hem where we vinde 'hem , & these were zome on 'hem , when time was , and pray look to 'hem .  And I chill make bold to wait upon you till I be better zartified .  He was amongst 'hem too at the cheating exercise , and yond 's the Knight himselfe ; I know 'hem all I troe .  I ha told you twonty times , and yet because you zay you 'll stand my vrend , I le tell you more , she was with child with Tim bevore my vather married her ( she brought him in her belly vrom this  towne here ( where they get Children without veare or wit ) but vor her money , and 's owne credits zake , my vather was well apaid to keep it vor his owne ; and no body knew to the Contrary , not Tim himzelfe to this houre .  Marry my brother Tim .  I shall have a kind of an uncle of you anon ,  And you prove Tims vather .  Znailes a Cushion , how warme her belly has made it .  Whoope , who comes here , my brother Tim drest like Master Maiors wife of Taunton-Deane .  And that 's your vather he zaies .  I le home againe then and make Tanton ring on 't . 