 She 's in your house ,  With Gentlewomen , who seeme to lodge here .  How doe you finde him Sir ? do's his disease  Take him by fits ; or is it constantly ,  And at all times the same ?  Of what yeares is he ?  Was it borne with him ? is it naturall ,  Or accidentall ? have you or his mother  Beene so at any time affected ?  Is your sonne married ?  What has he in his younger yeares been most  Addicted to ? what study ? or what practise ?  That 's the next way to the cure . Come quickely , quickly .  Very good , on .  Well sir , upon good termes I le undertake  Your sonne : let 's see him .  I le undertake her too . Is she mad too ?  Hold you your peace .  I shall finde her the madder of the two then .  Come let me see 'hem Sir , I le undertake  Her too : ha' you any more ? how does your wife ?  I le undertake  Her too : and you your selfe Sir ( by your favour ,  And some few yellow spots , which I perceive  About your Temples ) may require some Councell .  How , how ?  'T is most wondrous strange .  O Mandevile , le ts to him Lead the way sir .  Enough , enough .  Sir I applaud your noble disposition ,  And even adore the spirit of Travaile in you ,  And purpose to waite on it through the world ,  In which I shall but tread againe the steps  I heretofore have gone .  Over and under too .  Yes , through , and through :  No Isle nor Angle in that Neather world ,  But I have made discovery of : Pray sir sit ;  And sir be you attentive , I will warrant  His speedy cure without the helpe of Gallen ,  Hippocrates , Avicen , or Dioscorides ,  Nay Lady you may stay : Heare and admire ,  If you so please : But make no interruptions .  Doe you thinke sir , to th' Antipodes such a journey ?  Mandevile went farre .  What thinke you sir of Drake , our famous Countriman ?  Stay there ,  No truer than I ha' seen 't .  And talk'd with 'hem , and tasted of their fruit .  Your patience both I pray ; I know the griefe  You both doe labour with , and how to cure it .  Doe not thinke it strange sir :  I le make your eyes witnesses of more  Than J relate , if you 'll but travaile with me .  You heare me not deny that all is true  That Mandevile delivers of his Travailes ,  Yet J my selfe may be as well beleev'd .  Of Europe I le not speak , t is too neare home :  Who 's not familiar with the Spanish garbe ,  Th' Jtalian shrug , French cringe , and German hugge ?  Nor will J trouble you with my observations  Fetcht from Arabia , Paphlagonia ,  Mesopotamia , Mauritania ,  Syria , Thessalia , Persia , India ,  All still is too neare home : though I have touch'd  The Clouds upon the Pyrenaean mountaines ,  And bin on Paphos isle , where I have kist  The image of bright Venus : All is still  Too neare home to be boasted .  These things in me are poore : they found  In a farre travellers care ,  Like the reports of those , that beggingly  Have put out , on returnes from Edenburgh ,  Paris , or Venice , or perhaps Madrid ,  Whither a Millaner may with halfe a nose  Smell out his way : And is not neare so difficult ,  As for some man in debt , and unprotected  To walke from Charing-crosse to th' old Exchange .  No , J will pitch no nearer than th' Antipodes ;  That which is farthest distant , foot to foote  Against our Region .  they walke upon firme earth , as we doe here ,  And have the Firmament over their heads ,  As we have here   Silence sweete Lady .  Pray give the gentleman leave to understand me .  The people through the whole world of Antipodes ,  In outward feature , language , and religion ,  Resemble those to whom they are supposite :  They under Spaine appeare like Spaniards ,  Vnder France French-men , under England English  To the exterior shew : but in their manners ,  Their carriage , and condition of life  Extreamly contrary . To come close to you ,  What part o' th' world's Antipodes shall J now  Decipher to you , or would you travaile to ?  That is th' Antipodes of England .  The people there are contrary to us .  As thus ; here ( heaven be prais'd ) the Magistrates  Governe the people : there the people rule  The Magistrates .  Nay Lady t is by Nature ,  Here generally men governe the women .  But there the women over-rule the men ,  If some men faile here in their power , some women  Slip their holds there . As parents here , and masters ,  Command , there they obey the childe and servant .  By nature .  In briefe Sir , all  Degrees of people both in sex , and quality ,  Deport themselves in life and conversation ,  Quite contrary to us .  By no meanes , as you tender your sonnes good .  No Lady no ; that were to make men women ,  And women men . But there the maids doe woe  The Batchelors , and t is most probable ,  The wives lye uppermost .  And then at christenings and gossips feasts ,  A woman is not seene , the men doe all  The tittle-tattle duties , while the women  Hunt , Hawke , and take their pleasure .  Excellent ,  But by the contraries to ours , for where  We Hawke at Pheasant , Partrich , Mallard , Heron ,  With Goshawke , Tarsell , Falcon , Laneret ;  Our Hawks , become their game , our game their Hawks ,  And so the like in hunting . There the Deere  Pursue the Hounds , and ( which you may thinke strange )  I ha' seene one Sheepe worry a dozen Foxes ,  By Moone-shine ; in a morning before day ,  They hunt , trayne-sents with Oxen , and plow with Dogges .  Yes indeed are they ; and their Parrets teach  Their Mistresses to talke .  They keepe their Cats in cages ,  From Mice that would devoure them else ; and birds  Teach 'hem to whistle , and cry beware the Rats Pusse .  But these are frivolous nothings . I have knowne  Great Ladyes ride great horses run at tilt ;  At Ring , Races , and hunting matches , while  Their Lords at home have painted , pawned their Plate  And Jewels to feast their honourable servants .  And there the Merchants wives doe deale abroad  Beyond seas , while their husbands cuckold them  At home .  Patience good Sir ,  What do you laugh , that there is cuckold-making  In the Antipodes , I tell you Sir ,  It is not so abhorr'd here as t is held  In reputation there : all your old men  Doe mary girles , and old women boyes ,  As generation were to be maintain'd  Onely by cuckold making .  Pray your Patience .  There 's no such honest men there in their world ,  As are their Lawyers : they give away  Their practise ; and t' enable 'hem to doe so ,  Being all handy-crafts , or Labouring men ,  They work ( poore hearts full hard ) in the vacations ,  To give their law for nothing in the terme times .  No fees are taken : Which makes their divines ,  Being generally covetous , the greatest wranglers  In Law sutes of a kingdome , you have not there  A gentleman in debt , though citizens  Haunt them with cap in hand to take their wares .  On credit .  All wit and mirth and good society  Is there among the hirelings , clownes , and tradesmen ,  And all their Poets are Puritanes .  And players too . But they are all the sobrest  Precisest people pickt out of a nation .  Lady you shall .  She must if you can hope for any cure ,  Be govern'd Sir : your jealousie will grow  A worse disease then your sonnes madnesse else ,  You are content I take the course I told you of  To cure the gentleman .  Say Master Perigrine , will you travaile now  With mee to the Antipodes , or has not  The journey wearied you in the description .  First , Sir a health to auspicate our travailes ,  And wee 'll away .  No Sir : drink .  No Sir , he brings me word  The Marriner calls away ; the winde and tyde  Are faire , and they are ready to weigh anchor ,  Hoyst sayles , and onely stay for us , pray drinke Sir .  T is a deepe draught indeed , and now t is downe ,  And carries him downe to the Antipodes ?  I meane but in a dreame .  Trust to my skill ,  Pray take an arme , and see him in his cabbin .  Good Lady save my Ring that 's fallen there .  Come sir , aboord , aboord , aboord , aboord .  By all meanes ,  And if your Play takes to my expectation ,  As I not doubt my potion workes to yours ,  Your fancy and my cure shall be cry'd up  Miraculous . O y' are the Lord of fancy .  Yes , and has slept these twelve houres ,  After a thousand mile an houre out-right ,  By sea and land ; and shall awake anone  In the Antipodes .  It is that mimick fellow which your Lordship  But lately entertain'd .  He will be wondrous apt in my affaire :  For I must take occasion to interchange ,  Discourse with him sometimes amidst their Scenes ,  T' informe my patient , my mad young travellor  In diverse matters .  I know it is your way .  She brings your Ring , my Lord , upon her finger ,  And he brings her in 's hand . I have instructed her  To spurre his jealousie of o' the legges .  the young distracted  Gentlewoman too , that 's sicke of her virginity ,  Yet knowes not what it is ; and Blaze and 's wife  Shall all be your guests to night , and not alone  Spectators , but ( as we will carry it ) Actor  To fill your Comicke Scenes with double mirth .  Now the last minute of his sleeping fit  Determines . Raise him on his feete . So , so :  Rest him upon mine Arme . Remove that Chaire ,  Welcome a shore Sir in th' Antipodes .  And on firme land .  Sailers you may returne now to your ship .  Ex. Sail.    We 'll write as we returne Sir : and t is true ,  You slept most part o' th' journey hitherward ,  The aire was so somniferous : And t was well  You scap'd the Calenture by 't .  Eight moneths , and some odde dayes ,  Which was but as so many houres and minutes  Of ones owne naturall Country sleepe .  T was nothing for so young a Braine .  How thinke you one of the seven Christian Champions ,  David by name , slept seven yeares in a Leek-bed .  But what chiefe thing of note now in our Travells  Can you call presently to mind ? Speake like a Traveller .  Well wrought potion . Very well observ'd sir .  But now we are come into a temperate clime  Of equall composition of elements  With that of London ; and as well agreeable  Unto our nature , as you have found that aire .  Cry you mercy .  This Sir is Anti London . That 's the' Antipodes  To the grand City of our Nation ,  Iust the same people , language , and Religion ,  But contrary in Manners , as I ha' told you .  Now cast your Sea weeds off , and do'n fresh garments .  Hearke sir their Musicke .  Now see one of the Natives of this Country ,  Note his attire , his language , and behaviour .  Two Catchpoles  Runne from a Gentleman ( it seemes ) that would  Have bin arrested .  All Antipodeans .  Attend good Sir .  Sir , gentle Sir , a word with you .  He has wip'd my lips , you question very wisely Sir .  Thou tak'st him right : for I am sure he 's hungry .  Heere sir , you shall see  A poynt of Justice handled .  A loyall Lord , one of your subjects too .  NOw sir be pleas'd to cloud your Princely raiment  With this disguise . Great Kings have done the like ,  To make discovery of passages  Puts on a Cloake and Hat .   Among the people : thus you shall perceive  What to approve , and what correct among 'hem .  Stand close sir , and observe .  Bear-baiting sir she meanes .  Yes sir , old servants are  But Boyes to Masters , be they nere so young .  Yes , but  It was deriv'd from the Antipodes .  In th' Antipodes .  Be gone .  No matter goe —  Exit . Gent. and Servant .   At first shew mercy .  That was well said .  So all be gone .  Ex.    A woman Fencer , that has plaid a Prize ,  It seemes , with Losse of blood .  He keepes a Schoole , and teacheth needle-worke ,  Or some such Arts which we call womanish .  Some man it seemes , that 's duckt for scolding .  You shall see .  No , doubtlesse we are awake sir .  I 'me glad he takes a taste of sence in that yet .  these are  Low things and easie to be qualified —  But see sir , here come Courtiers , note their manners .  Yes : and Clownes Musk-Mellons .  Then look on these : Here are of those conditions  En. carman , & waterman .   Yes sir : They know not there , they have  A new King here at home .  T is common here sir , for your watermen  To write most learnedly , when your Courtier  Has scarce ability to read .  Patience and Counsell will goe through it sir .  Is this man mad ?  My cure goes fairely on . Doe you marvaile that  Poore men out-shine the Courtiers ? Looke you sir ,  A sicke-man giving counsell to a Physitian :  And there 's a Puritan Trades-man , teaching a  Great Traveller to lye : That Ballad-woman  Gives light to the most learned Antiquary  In all the Kingdome .  A naturall foole , there , giving grave instructions  Those persōs passe ouer the Stage in Couples , according as he describes them .   T' a Lord Embassador . That 's a Schismatick ,  Teaching a Scrivener to keep his cares :  A parish Clearke , there , gives the Rudiments  Of Military Discipline to a Generall :  And there 's a Basket maker confuting Bellarmine .  We are saild , I hope ,  Beyond the line of madnesse . Now sir , see  A States-man studious for the Common-wealth ,  Solicited by Projectors of the Country .  Observe him further , pray sir .  Yes , their Law punisheth  The rob'd , and not the thiefe , for surer warning ,  And the more safe prevention . I have seene  Folkes whipt for losing of their goods and money ,  And the picke-pockets cherish'd .  No : you had sir ,  But she 's deceast .  By sure advertisment ; and that her fleeting spirit  Is flowne into , and animates this Princesse .  Be not slacke  T' embrace and kisse her Sir .  He kisses her and retires .   Why doe you stand aloofe Sir ?  'Slid he falls backe againe to Mandevile madnesse .  She 's no Gadlibrien , Sir , upon my knowledge .  You may as safely lodge with her , as with  A mayd of our owne nation . Besides ,  You shall have ample counsell : for the present ,  Receive her , and intreat her to your Chappell .  My Lord you 'l put him backe againe , if you trouble his braine with new discoveries .  I feare your show will but perplex him too .  WHether my cure be perfect yet or no ,  It lies not in my doctor-ship to know .  Your approbation may more raise the man ,  Then all the Colledge of physitians can ;  And more health from your faire hands may be wonne ,  Then by the streakings of the seaventh sonne . 