 Yes content my selfe ! shall I so ? with what , you Iohn Bopeepe ? you must be my husband , and I must content my selfe , must I ? no sir , 't is you that must content me , or 't is your heart must smart for 't .  All has not done it yet you see , nor have you yet found out the way . Five yeares practice one would thinke were sufficient , so long you have had me ; and too long it is unlesse I had got a better name by 't , to be accounted barren — — oh me .  That I may bee defective ! I defie thee , Lubber ; I defie thee and all that say so , thou fribling fumbler thou ; I would some honest sufficient man might be Judge betwixt us whether I bee defective .  Defective quoth a —  Doe I looke like a thing defective ?  Oh fearefull !  You shall be Judge Sir Hugh , whether I bee defective ; you have lyen here Sir Hugh these three yeares , have beene our constant lodger off and on as wee say ; and can you thinke mee defective ?  What nothing ? would you wish him to afford mee nothing to content me ? I must have something to content me ; and something he must find me , or I will make him looke out for 't .  Nor any way else so long as hee is such a jealous beast as hee is .  Not , and stare like a mad Oxe upon every man that lookes upon me ?  And denies me all things that I have a mind to .  I must have my longings first ; I am not every woman I ,  I must have my longings before I can be with child I .  As true as I live he fribles with mee sir Hugh ; I doe but now long for two or three idle things scarce worth the speaking of ; and doe you thinke he will grant me one of 'em ?  One of my longings is to have a couple of lusty able bodied men , to take me up , one before and another behind , as the new fashion is , and carry mee in a Man-litter into the great bed at Ware .  Then I doe long to see the new ship , and to be on the top of Pauls Steeple when it is new built , but that must not bee yet ; nor am I so unreasonable but I can stay the time : in the meane time I long to see a play , and above all playes , The Knight of the burning — what dee'  call 't .  Pestle is it ? I thought of another thing , but I would faine see it . They say there 's a Grocers boy kills a Gyant in it , and another little boy that does a Citizens wife thy daintielist — — but I would faine see their best Actor doe me ; I would so put him too 't , they should find another thing in handling of mee I warrant 'em .  Quickely sweet sir Hugh , I long for that before you name it .  Why is that good for a woman that longs to bee with Child ?  Indeed Sir Hugh ?  Doe you say so sir Hugh ?  Yes , we know Doctor Thou-Lord , though he knowes none but Lords and Ladies , or their companions . And a fine conceited Doctor he is , and as humorous I warrant yee ; and will Thou and Thee the best Lords that dares be acquainted with him : calls Knights , Iacke , Will , and Tom familiarly ; and great Ladies , Gills , and Sluts too , and they crosse him . And for his opinion sake , and your good report sir Hugh , I will have Sparagus every meale all the yeare long , or I le make all fly for 't ; and doe you looke to 't Fribble , for it will bee for your comodity as well as mine .  And let me have some presently for my next meale , or you cannot imagine how sicke I will be .  Is there conveniency for that too ?  But doe not honest men goe thither with their wives too ?  Why doe we not goe then ? or what stay we for , can you tell fumbler ?  Noble Knight I thanke you , I hope my next longing shall be to bespeake you for a God-father .  I take your noble word .  I have beene long a comming for all my longings : but now I hope I shall have my belly full on 't .  Would I were at it once .  With the Asparagus I am ; and yet but halfe pleas'd neither , as my husband shall very well know .  No indeed Iohn Brittleware ; the Asparagus has done its part ; but you have not done your part Iohn ; and if you were an honest man Iohn , you would make sir Hughes words good of the Asparagus , and be kinder to me : you are not kinde to your owne wife Iohn in the Asparagus way ; you understand me : for ought  I see Pompeons are as good meat for such a hoggish thing as thou art .  At home , is 't come to that ? and I know what I know : I know he cannot love his wife enough at home , that won't bee kinde to her abroad : but the best is I know what my next longing shall be .  It beginnes to possesse me already , still more and more : now t is an absolute longing , and I shall be sick till I have it .  I dare tell it you , but you must never know that I have it .  Dare ; nay be as jealous as you will : thus it is , I do long to steale out of mine owne house , unknowne to you as other women doe , and their husbands nere the wiser , hither to this same Sparagus Garden , and meet some friend that will be kind to me .  In private ; unknowne to you , as I told you ; 't is unpossible I shall ever have a child else , and you so jealous over me as you are ?  Art thou a man , five yeares married to me ; and aske mee now if I be a woman ?  Why his hornes flye not out of me to fright thee , do they ?  Look you there Iohn jealousie , there 's an example before your eyes , if nothing hang i' your sight ; there you may see the difference between a sower husband and a sweet natur'd gentleman ! good heart ! how kindly he kisses her ! and how feately she holds up the neb to him ! little heart ! when will you be so kind to your owne wife Iohn .  No , no , I know her , t is Mris.  Holy-hocke the precise Drapers wife ; oh , how my longing growes stronger in mee : J see what shift soever a woman makes with her husband at home , a friend does best abroad .  It seems then he has beene as kind to her another way .  No , no , sir Hugh , 't is not the Sparagus can do 't , unlesse the man were better :  Their hornes hang in their light then ; but truely Aunt , for mine owne part , I had rather my husband should be jealous stil then be cur'd in that right kinde ; though I confesse the ends of all my longings , and the vexations I have put him to  Were but to run his jealousie out of breath ,  And make him pant under the frivolous weight  He beares ; that is , a Cuckold in conceit ;  Which without doubt he labours with by this time :  And when he finds me cleare , t will be as well :  ( I hope ) and better then if it were done  By the broad way of foule pollution .  He shall come hither and renounce his jealousie ,  And then entreat me too before I goe .  And drest , and drest indeed ;  Never was maid so drest : oh sir you are happy ;  The happiest Knight , and are now in election  Of the most sweet encounter in a bride ,  That e're your chivalry could couch a Lance at .  She is her self the purest piece of Purslane — that e're had liquid sweet meats lick'd out of it .  Such Brides doe seldome make their grooms their prey .  I said she was drest as never Bride was drest .  Clap her cheek , rub her nose .  Cut her lace , cut her lace , and bow her forward , so , so , so .  T will out , 't will out ,  It seems so by the story .  I Iacke , be you jealous no more , and I will long no more to vexe thee . 