 Sir I suppose you are sir Phillip Luckles .  And you are shortly to marry a Citty Widdow , one Mistresse Fitchow ?  For whose deare sake you purchas'd a foure hundred pounds knighthood , to goe a woing in : out of which shee is to giue nine thousand pounds for a Ladiship for terme of life .  Sir not to scold , or brawle , ( a vice to frequent in our Sexe . ) But , in few words ( and ciuill ones ) to make you sensible of a little of that infinite iniury , you haue done to one , whose vnvaluable portion of vertue makes her fit , ( besides the right shee has already in you ) to take a brides place , before your later choyce , or any shee , whose wealth might weigh downe hers . You stand as if you knew not who I meane .  Pray sir bethinke your selfe . Has there not beene a former contract made betwixt you and some other .  That I may well beleeue , when you forget it .  If you haue soule , or sense , you must remember her : No ? Read then her name subscrib'd to that .  If pitty , loue , or thought of me ,  Liue in your breast I need not die .  But if all these from thence be fled ;  Liue you to know , that I am dead .  Farewell good Constance . I am sorry I haue no further for thee .  Doe you know that name sir ?  You are vnhappy then . For you shall loose , in this disdaine of yours , more honour then your life time in repentance can recover . So fare you well sir .  Pray tell me ; and tell me truely . What is the most has past betweene you ? If it bee the maine losse of your Mayden-head , it shall neare go further : therefore let mee know it .  How often haue you seene him ?  That once that I saw him with you , your Vncle  was there , too , in the Orchard , but last weeke .  How haue you made me wrong this Gentleman , to challenge him as if hee had beene your due vpon this idle complement ? when I vndertooke the Message , I presum'd ( for so your words did intimate to me ) you had beene sure , as fast as faith could bind you , man and wife . Where was my discretion ? Now I perceiue this was but common Courtship ; and no assurance of a Mariage promise .  I know not how to counsell or comfort you , vntill I heare him speake . My man tells me , hee appointed him to meet , and bring him to you about this houre . Poore heart I pitty thee . Before thou come to halfe my yeares thou wilt forget to loue halfe so truely .  O , are you come ? where 's the Knight ?  That was discretion .  I suspect something .  Yes sweetheart . But goe you to your Chamber and let me haue a word before you see him . Goe call him in . Doe so swetheart . I le not be long .  Blesse me ! this is another man . More abuse yet ?  What are you sir I pray ?  What peece sir ? If you can imagine what you are , where you are , what you would haue , or where you would be , I pray tell mee sir . I le doe the best I can to satisfie you . O' my discretion will I sir .  Sir .  If I erre therein sir , I hope your pardon . For as you shall reueale your selfe , I shall either repent me of my obliuion , or accuse you of vnaduisednesse .  O infinite abuse ! Sir I cry you mercy . I hope you will pardon my weake sightednes . The worlds ●ad and we loue to deale securely . Could not your worship make your selfe knowen sooner ? Please you to entertaine you selfe here a while , I will instantly prouide for your better welcome . O horrible indignity ! But if Porters and cudgels  may be had for money , and I fit you not , let me loose my discretion . I am furnisht with blankets already . —  O child , wee are vndone .  A lasse it is not he : but some Villaine sent by him to vexe and spite you . One that perswades himselfe , we are of those common creatures ▪ that sell their honesties .  He is so dishonorable . But I will fit his Vndertaker , what ere he bee . Looke you , is that he thinke you ?  Sweet heart , can you dissemble your sorrow with a Song , to passe a little time ? I le downe and sift out the subtlety of this deceit .  You professe nobly sir . First will it please you , see this Gentlewoman ; so much the seruant of your Kinsman ? What shee is I haue told you . Only I present her to your iudgement , whether her outward seeming may deserue such scorne ?  In thus much ▪ to coniure you by your Manhood ; to doe nothing that law may question , to your , or our disuantage : we shall not need ,  For our owne ●ight , to doe our selues misdeed . Therefore take this in hand . —  Good sir no more . What may this poore thing bee , that br●● ' it ●o but now ?  Hold . No more .  Alas sir all will be too late .  Wee will waite on you sir .  Alas , what meane you sir .  Shee vnderstands you not a word sir .  Good sir , consider her disease . If her vnderstanding were direct , you might speake directly to her . But if I haue any discretion shee is too full of melancholly to be purg'd this way .  Not to be mad sir , because shee is melancholly , not by taking a wrong course for her recouery to ruine her , and forfeit your iudgement Doe you thinke , that commands with chidings , threats , or stripes haue power to worke vpon her , when shee has neither will nor reason vvithin her selfe to doe , or not to doe anything whatsoeuer .  If her health in sense and vnderstanding were perfect : yet as shee is Woman , her will were first to be wrought vpon by faire and gentle treaty . But as shee is at this time so sicke in mind , that knowledge of what shee is , what shee do● , especially of what shee should doe is dead in her , her Mind must bee first recouer'd ; and that by a due course , in soft and temperate proceedings ; to which fit time as well as meanes must bee allovved . Moreouer —  You should first see , if it pleased you , how her affection may bee wrought vpon by the Gentlemans owne faire intreaty . Pray sir speake to her like a Su●er , looke vpon him Sweet heart : This Gentleman loues you . Pray speake sir . Doe you not ?  Heare him speake Constance .  Poore heart .  Say you are .  Shee has stop'd his mouth there .  Nay you must not weepe Sweet-heart .  I had rather heare you sing though , then see you weep .  Why Lone , what fault doe you find in this Gentleman ?  ●ollow her sir .  Sir , there will bee no way for her recouery , but to remou . her lodging , and haue some good Phisicians about her .  Yes , but of whose getting sir ?  Thinke not of it sir . A man of your yeares , and grauity , vvith the respect the World giues you for your place and vvorship in the Common Wealth , together vvith the riches you haue p●ld vp in a Mountainous estate ; to cast all dovvne vvith your selfe , and fortune at the foot of a stranger I Thinke vvhat vvould be thought of you , if such a dotage should possesse you   Pray hovv vvas Master Spartledirt talk'd on tother day for doing such a tricke ? yet he vvas held a vvise Lavvyer : You see a faire example in the late Mariage of sir Phillip Lucklesse , and his Fitchow , a Match of your ovvne making , and cause of your Neeces and your ovvne Misfortune .  There 's tugging for a Mastery , and buffetting for the breeches . He barks at her , shee snaps at him ; shee breaks his wine Glasse , hee her looking Glasse ; shee puts away his Seruants , hee turnes away hers ; shee locks her Chamber dore , he bolts his , begetting nothing but a World of strife and disorder .  I pray stay a little sir , take me along with you .  Vnderstand me sir . As I would not haue you fall rashly vpon anything ; no more would I haue you flie sodainly from any purpose , without advise and sober deliberation . If you should marry one that would be a Comfortable Nurse vnto you , as ( though I say'● ) you partly know —  Yes , build Almes houses and Hospitals for beggers , and prouide in Bridewell , and houses of Correction for your frends and kindred . Pray giue enough to Bedlem , you may feele some part of that benefit your selfe before you die , if these sits hold you .  What 's the toy now ?  Cl● . Blesse vs !  Men that you doe not know sir ?  You run a great hazard in this sir . You may perhaps be cheated of all you haue , if I haue any discreation .  Sir I le obey you . If he bee mad I will not bee foolish , bat strike in for a ●●are . And for your Guests sir , let me alone . My man is best acquainted at the Ordinaries .  Within there . Beauis . But introth sir , I doubt whither any such Guests will come , you haue alwayes beene so strict and terrible in your iustitiary courses .  Beauis , You vnderstand me . Prithee goe discreetly about it .  Very ill fauouredly me thinkes .  Sure t is Stenography , every Character a word : and here and there one for a whole sentence .  What did you to provoke her thus ?  Is it so ? Good Sir , his meaning was , you should put her fairely on like a Louer , with sweet speeches , and gentle behaviour .  And therefore you fell to expresse your selfe in rude action . Shee has scorn'd you but well : you are a fine putter to 't indeede .  I sweet-heart : but first you shall goe in the Coach with●● to the Doctors .  It shall be Sir Phillip , ( poore soule , ) all must be Sir Phillip . You shall lye at his house .  The best that we can possibly .  All sir . I would vse no other . She is there already . Ex.   Sir , I desire rather your discretion , then the glosse of Learning . I am rather govern'd by the wholsome effects of the one , then the smooth directions of the other .  Sir , I must not onely approue , but applaud your skill . T is loue indeed , And ● am right glad that your opinion iumps with my owne knowledge : for now I doubt not of your speedy addresse to the cure .  Sir , the Gentleman is below , he came with me , onely I would not bring him to her fight vvithout your approbation , scaring it might doe hurt .  They are falne out I thinke .  Yes sir . Pray obserue . But how fell you out sir ?  Be not afraid sweet-heart , he dares not hurt sir Phillip .  I le warrant you . What has hee done to moue her thus ? I know not what this obscure Doctor is . But M. Tridewell put me vpon him ; and his approved honesty has and must kill all m●s trust in me .  One vvord , by your leaue first M. Doctor , and I 'le attend you . Sir not alone my Discretion , but my Reputation lies at stake : and I make no doubt of your noblenesse vpon your Kinsmans word , my Complotter in this busines . Therefore while I hold argument with the Doctor ( who shal by no meanes perceiue our deceit ) slip you away with her in your Coach , where M. Tridewell ▪ hath appointed , till the Euening ; and let me alone to scuffle with the old man the while ▪ And then I doubt  not all our troblesome labours shall haue a peaceable end . I le send old Mad-cap to your Lady in a Thunder-clap . But noble sir , your reputation —  No more sir . I le lay no coniurations vpon so noble a spirit . Come Master Doctor —  O me is hee come ?  Euen he sir . Where 's my charge ; Mistris Constance ?  Shee was here but now sir , while the Musick plaid . And wee withdrew our sclues , thinking she might sleepe sir .  A Coach sir ? Alas I am affraid ; my flesh trembles .  Sir here came in one Master Widgine , the Lady Luckles brother —  As acquainted with the Doctor sir —  And he saw her sir . But seem'd to depart , when wee withdrew our selues to talke about the cure .  Sir he was reported to me by very good Iudgements , to be a rare Practitioner .  My purge workes as I wisht . I am amus'd though at the flight of the Doctor . But I haue too many businesses to intertaine new thoughts .  Therefore be discreet and secret . The disguise hee is in I haue told you . The place is this . At the dore you shall leaue me . The houre 7 a clock .  Yes sir looke you , I dare shew my face .  Euen shee Gentlemen , as I will more circumstantially reueale vnto you presently , after a word or two with my fellow prisoner , for which I craue your fauour .  You see I am not the Woman you tooke me for : but one ordain'd for your greater good . If you will giue me my present demand . I will turne all your disgrace into laughter ; make you of worthier esteeme now at the instant , then euer you were , by the generall approbation of these , and all that know you beside . Your Neece to shall be restor'd to your owne liking , and all shall be as well as you can wish . Otherwise , if you haue a mind to bee euerlastingly sham'd , by being perpetually laught at , take your owne course , I le take mine .  Whereas your purpose was to make a Whore . Make me your honest Wife ; no more . Bee sodaine in your resolue , all will be naught else .  Then hearke you sir .  Now beare vp sir . Looke confidently , and say , you put on your Disguise purposely to intertaine disguis'd Guests . Come auant with your Picca de goat , and beginne with the Iustice here . 