 A day too soone ● doubt in this forward age .  Shee said it was vpon the Cupboard ; and it was vnder the Cupboard .  I shall be caru'd out betwixt them .  O sir shee 'll rend me in peeces , teare me like a Larke .  Sir , there 's Master Walter can sing it rarely .  Hey downe downe , &c.   I left her very ill sir ; for she has beaten me , and thrust me out of doores with her owne hands , without penny in my purse , or other Cloake o' my back , then the bare Liuory , that a cast Seruing man can not shake off , of Knave and Beggar .  In her seruice sir .  I sir . Those are conuenient Seruants sir . Wee are couenant seruants . They are respected aboue husbands : Wee abased beneath slaues . They purchase place , honors , and offices oftentimes with their Ladies 〈…〉 , when wee finde not our wages without hard words , and are in feare , ( poore snakes ) to haue our sloughes pulled ouer our eares before the yeare goe about . Wee drudge for our Ladies , they play with their Ladies : But the best is , wee labour and sweat it out for our Ladies , when they are faine to talke Physick , and lye in for their Ladies .  Sir , I will say ouer the Gent. vshers Grammar to you , and doe her seruice by the rules .  In a Gentleman Vsher there be eight parts . Boldnesse , Neatnesse , Flattery and Secresie , rewarded . Diligence , Obedience Truth and Honesty , vnrewarded .  His Boldnesse is the vse of his Manhood in right of his Ladies honour , degree , place or priuiledge , at home , abroad , in priuate or publique meeting , for the hand , for the w●ll , for the what she will , for the what she calls .  By obtaining of Sutes made out of cast Gownes or Petticoates . Which if hee be a Taylor , as most of our middle sort of Professours are , hee is thereby made a Man in spight of the prouerbe , and thrust into the high way of aduancement .  His neatnesse consists most diuersly ▪ sir . Not onely in the decent wearing of those cloathes and cleane linnen , pruning his haire , russling his Bootes , or ordring his shooes tyes ; these are poore expressions , a iouney man Barbar will doo 't . But to  doe his office neatly , his garbe , his pace , his postures , his co●es on and his comes off , complements , his visites 〈◊〉 ▪   In which a profound iudgement could be pusselled .  And the most absolute or artificiall memory set o' the rack . To be able to relate how this Ladies tooth does ; and tother Ladies toe . How this Ladies Milk does : and how tothers Doctor lik'd her last water : how this Ladies husband ; and how tother Ladies dogge slept last night : how this childe , that Monkey , this Nurse , that Parrat , and a thousand such . Then his neatnesse in Chamber-worke , or about the person of his Lady , in case her Mayd or her Woman be otherwise occupied , to conuey a pin into her ruffe neatly , or adde a help to her head dressing , as well as Iohn among the Maydes , Lastly , his dexterity in Caruing , and his discretion in Marshalling of meates ; to giue euery messe the due seruice , and euery dish his lawfull preheminence .  Sir . They are parts that spring out of vertue , and are therefore borne with their reward in their mouthes , and ought to expect no further from any seruice in these times .  I long to see her sir .  No sir . But I haue heard shee is diseas'd with Melancholly ; and if she should proue mad too , like my old Lady , I were then as farre to seeke as ere I was .  Sir , I can Shoulder my Lady too : but that is when she takes Coach ; and Foot my Lady , when she alights .  I learnt all of a good old Ladies man in the Strand sir , that must be namelesse .  O most Hostlerly spoken ! Vnder correction sir , Wayt your Lady I pray sir .  Indeed sir , it was my Ladies plot , but you must take no notice of it .  But if sir Paul , my now Master should discouer my deceit , how shall I scape his vengeance .  I , in the warre Captaine : but hee is a Iustice of Peace , and a Commander of Captaines in Midlesex , sends two or three drunken Ones to Newgate at a clap sometimes .  Shee 'll see none but sir Phillip , you must be no body else . Remember that : you must know no other name you haue . Now if you can sir Phillip it handsomely there 's it .  Well , I must venter it . Here shee comes . Has a Baby .  Oh shee has a hundred such ● pish toyes . E●ne now shee was great with Child forsooth as shee could goe . And was perswaded she had a Child as big as I in her belly . I wondred at it , and shee told me shee had had a hundred there as big in her dayes .  I but shee knew not what shee said . By and by , I must be a Man-Midwife forsooth and deliuer her : for t was past all Womans skill ? Now shee thinkes shee is brought a bed , and nurses the Child her selfe .  O none but sir Phillip .  O Gentlemen ! my Masters comming , all 's spoild if hee take you . Part quickly .  Sit , there 's a vvoman below . —  Is the olde man mad trow . Sir , shee will haue to doe with you aboue , if you speak not with her below . I had much a doe to keepe her downe stayres , her case is so lamentable she sayes . I neuer saw a vvoman so importunate in my life sir . You must downe sir .  Shee sayes shee is vvife to a Constable sir , that you lately committed ; and if your Wor. dos not release him presently , that hee 's vndone , and shee 's vndone , all their children are vndone , that vnborne in her belly is vndone , and I know not how many more are vndone for euer .  Shee spied you in the Streete sir , and followed you , and follow you shee vvould , had you gone into the Priuy Chamber she sweares ; her cause enforces her she sayes . And shee is so great with childe too , that no man dares giue her a thrust to keepe her back . I heare her blow vp stayres .  Your Vncle 's gone Mistris , and sayes hee will be here at seuen a clock againe . But shall I tell you a fiue thing Mistris ?  But it is of him Mistris . Hee sayes hee will bring a Coach for your at sixe a clock to fetch you away : will you goe with him ?  How shall you Vncle finde you at 7 then ?  Hmh —  I thinke she be in her wits already . If not , I must humour her , though I bee put to the trouble to shift her away againe . Shee shall marre no sport that 's certaine .  This Clinches . I shall winne my Ladies heart for euer . To mannage two such businesses more , were enough to raise me Agent for a State .  I hope I perform'd my duty .  I am made for euer . I thanke your languishing Ladiship . 