 Sir , there 's a gentlewoman would speake with you .  I never saw her before sir . I askt her name . But I perceiu'd some displeasure in her looke ( whether it were shame , griefe , or anger I know not ) that made her conceale it : Only telling me shee was a woman very hurtlesse , and warrantable against your feare .  No sir it is not shee . I know my Lady that shall be .  Who sir , the Gentlewoman ? I put her in her coach .  A Bawd I Blesse my Masters wits . But the best is , if hee be mad , there 's that at hand will tame him , or any man : A fine Cooler , call'd Mariage , to take his batchelors button a hole lower ! Can it bee possible ? Shee might ha' beene Mother o' the Maydes , as well , to my seeming ; or a Matron , to haue traind vp the best Lady Daughters in the Countrie . Here comes her Man , againe .  Are you the Cock-bawd to the hen was here , ere while sir .  Come you to bargaine for a Punke sir ? Faith where 's the meeting ? Wher 's the Supper ? at the Bridgefoot , or the Cat ? or where is it ?  Hold , hold . Pray hold a little sir . I cry you mercy . I might bee mistaken . I see thou art a good fellow . I haue halfe a dozen for thee faith . S'foot what big words and terrible action he has ! Is this the Bawds language ? Pray pardon me sir : I haue beene overwatch'd of late , and knew neither place , person , not what I said at the instant .  I sir , t is an infirmity I am much troubled withall ; a kind of a — betweene steepe and waking — I know not what to call it . I would giue tvventie nobles to bee cured on 't . I pray take it not ill sir ; I vse any man so , when the fits on  mee , till they throughly wake mee .  No , t is very well now I thanke you sir . Alas I put my Master to the paines , twise or thrise a weeke , I assure you , to my griefe .  Faith I fell into 't first , with a conceit I tooke for overbuying a bargaine of Drinke . Your businesse with my Master sir ? I pray .  I shall acquaint him with it .  I pray pardon my error .  O not so sir . Well master Pimp I haue a plot vpon your imployment , as brauely as you carry it . I know he is a Bawd by his out-facing . And I doe humble and disguise my Manhood to worke on him by policy : And if I put not a fine slurre vpon him for all his braue brauados , then Oliver Pate has no braines ; nor is there any difference betwixt a Seruing-man and a Pandar . —  Now wit , and bee thy will ! Sir , my Master desires to bee excused : for he is with some friends , on priuate busines , concerning his Mariage ; which is to be to morrow . But sayes , if it please you to meet him in the Euening , betweene foure , and fiue , in the great Pallace ; and conduct  him to the Gentlewoman , hee will attend her with his best seruice .  As I wish'd : But you may easily . Hee is of a comely stature ; and will be in a red cloake and a white Feather , Besides I le waite on him .  Fare you well sir . Good Foist , I shall make a Whiskin of you now , and for nothing too . I haue beene a little bold with my Masters name in this answere ; the knowledge of which he is vnguilty of . I saw how he shifted her off : Therefore I will further bee bold both with his name and person , which I will put vpon a friend in store . My speciall friend , Captaine Anvile , a notable lecherous Tuppe : He has beene at me for a bit out of my Masters flocke any time these three weekes . I le pleasure him with her for ready money . I know t is some cast stuffe , that my Master has done withall . And let him take what followes .  Brother Hum●rey , take my hand and word for thy instructions . I will acquaint thee with an old Ladies Vsher , in the Strand , that shall giue thee thy Gait , they Postures , thy Language , thy Habit , and thy whole chardge in so plaine a Method , that thou shalt instantly start vp as pretty a Gentleman Vsher , none disprays'd as any betweene Temple-bar and Charing-crosse ; mary further I cannot promise you● But prithee tell mee . Is our Lady of so hot a temper and stately cariage as shee is reputed ?  But how is she to her seruants ? Bountifull and free ?  Shee will not strike will shee ?  Heauen be good to vs ! she nere strooke thee , did she ?  Nay brother , you know we haue vow'd to be all one : the Mariage hath vnited vs . Prithee tell mee .  Will shee throw too ?  Wee shall haue a foule h● use on 't I feare ▪ But since it is too late , fight Dog , fight Beare . I le turne my Master loose to her . Here they come . By this light me thinkes they looke as if they were fallen out already .  By this hand my Ladie 's iealous already .  Some that come in gentile fashion to present a Maske .  The Masquers are all gone sir .  They tooke their Coaches instantly , and disperst themseLucs by seuerall wayes , I had no Commission to stay them .  To discourse a tedious Lecture vnto you , Lady , in speaking philosophically of the disease of Melancholly , were to shew more learning then discretion . There are large volumes of it in Print , to very slender purpose .  To the point then Lady . I see no reason why I should vexe and torment this delicate and tender body , with Physick . Her disease is Melancholly ; The cause of this disease I haue found apparantly in the two houres probation since you left her with me , to be Loue , which shee hath so greedily taken in , that it hath overwhelm'd her spirits , and turn'd the faculties of all her senses into a rude confusion , sending forth the vse of them extravagantly .  'T is done in three words . The Party that shee loues , must be the Doctor , the Medicine , and the Cure .  Pray call him vp , on perill of my judgement .  Ex. Tray .  Giue me your hand Mrs. Constance . I haue good newes for you .  The Gentleman , whom you loue best , shall be your bed-fellow .  She prattles very prettily me thinks . Married already ? Sure Cupid shot you with a forked arrow out of his Crosbow . But what will you say Lady , i● by my Ar● I render this Gentleman vnmarried againe , and a Suter vnto you presently ?  Out of her wits say they ? I feare shee is wiser then all of vs , that haue to doe with her . Shee knowes my gowne better than I doe : for I haue had but two houres acquaintance with it . 'T is no longer since I hir'd it of the hangmans Merchant a Broker . It might ha' beene Lopus gowne for ought I know .  By my faith you wrong me : Nor of any poysoning purpose . I was but putting a case of —  Is that the Gent ?  I must first salute him by your favour . Sir , all the accumulations of honour showre downe vpon you .  But one vvord sweet Lady ; and you shall haue the vvhole benefit of his presence to your selfe .  Your Coach is ready at dore you say .  As you finde her then after a few vvords away vvith her . I haue perform'd my part sir . I 'le hold the discreet gouernesse in talke in the next roome .  I ha' done sweet soule . Lady I haue instructed the gent.  shall we leaue them ?  Is this her Vncle ?  S●ue yee sir I le goe find her —  By your leaue Gallants . I perceiue your Company is not yet full .  It is not to be doubted sir . Yet a Voluntary . But there are some without that are more then invited , yet come against their wills .  Brought sir by a Constable and Officers , to be examin'd . Where 's the iolly Iustice ?  A Gentlewoman , and a Spaniard .  I , a Spaniard , Ha : if you will haue it so :  Which of your Neeces sir ?  To cleare that doubt there lyes my Order of Priesthood .  Euen hee , the Parson Nochurch , and this my Patron , whom I must beseech together with the whole company , to preserue me out of the high Commission : for looke you , here is againe your Licence . 