 Good Master Gold wyer , doe you know these Ladies ; or be they Ladyes , ha ?  No not I .  Oh fie , fie , fie .  Goe , goe , you are a wag , I itch not that way .  With all my heart , I am free from businesse .  Introth Mr. Gold-wyer you must pardon mee , I may not stay with you : I had almost forgot a most important businesse .  I say he is an unthrift , a Squanderer , and must not expect supplyes from me .  I with all my heart good Mr. Gold-wyer ; I like the aire well , and your motion hitherto .  The most unthankfull office in the world : pray use some other friend in 't : indeed I stay too long .  Why what new danger is he towards , more than the old  ill company he was wont to keep ?  Bounce , bounce .  Not I , nor desire acquaintance with either of his qualities .  And now he is come home to right himselfe , by writing his owne meritorious acts , is he ?  Glorifie doe you say ? I have heard Poets the most envious detractors of one another of all Creatures , next to the very Beggers .  Good Mr. Gold-wyer goe you to your company , I am not a man of reckoning amongst such ; besides , I seldome drink betwixt meales .  Even a farre off I assure yee : I never durst approach near  the fury of either of the fiery qualities .  Poets may imagine any thing : imagination is their wealth , some of 'hem would be but poore else : are you turn'd Poet Nephew ?  What by writing Verses to win some Mistresses to your private recreation : meane you so ?  Enough , enough ; you are the first good Poet that e're I saw weare so good a Countenance : leave it , I would not have a gentleman meddle with Poetry for spoyling of his face : you seldome see a Poet look out at a good Visnomy .  Yes , and that it is a Poeticall Policy , where the face is naturally good without spot or blemish , to deface it by drinking , or wenching , to get a name by 't .  Let me first admire thy goodnesse and thy pitty :  My owne true naturall Nephew .  I now consider , and will answer thee  In a full measure of true gratitude .  Oh sincere Nephew , good boy I am not hurt ,  Nor can I thinke of hurt , my thoughts are bent  Upon thy good ; you were speaking of a choyse sir ,  My Nephew would be matcht to , let me know the party .  Let me but know the party and her friend ,  And instantly about it .  Nephew I am yet bound to thee , and shall not rest till I am dis-ingag'd by doing this office for thee : what is she , let me know ?  But by the way Nephew , I must bind you from Poetry .  Rather excuse me sir , that presse upon you  Thus in your weaknesse : but you understand  My businesse by my letter if you have read it .  A very bashfull boy I assure you ; that 's the reason  That I am wonne to be a spokes-man for him .  A witch could not gesse righter : but they say  That dying men are Prophets oftentimes .  Suppose he has beene wild , let me assure you  He 's now reclaim'd , and has my good opinion :  And is as like in person and behaviour  To gaine the maids affection .  I there 's the poynt indeed : why sir , he has  A hundred pound a yeare ; and is withall  A hopefull , and a handsome gentleman .  You sir have wealth enough .  Is she so grave in youth ? I have often sought  A sight of her , but never could obtaine it .  Will not your Neece be seene : I faine would see her .  Introth no otherwise ; and so he told me .  May not I see her sir ?  Pray let me see your Neece .  Is that her name ?  A maid ; I took her for an old woman .  I le call her for you sir : Fris —  Be of good cheare sir , and take courage man :  What you have beene a Striker in your dayes :  And may be agen , I would not have him dye .  Take heede , straine not your selfe too hard , but send agen :  The rarest beauty that I e're beheld ,  Act 4.  Scene 2.    Which with a maiden-head of that growth ,  Enter Annabell .   Would be an absolute wonder , her sweet modesty ,  And meeke obedience , justifies that too ,  She kneeles at Strikers feet .   And makes her up a miracle of nature ;  My former misbeliefe I doe renounce ,  And at first sight , ( which is the birth of love )  A faith growes in me , strengthened by the word  Of this expiring man , that chastity  Has not forsaken beauty .  I dare not speak to her for my Nephew now :  Nor ( though I love her strangely ) for my selfe .  I ha' not the heart to wrong her ; she 's too good .  Mr. Goldwire , what 's your haste ?  You first mov'd me to 't .  Had he a plot upon me , I le have my plot too ;  And now woe for my selfe sir if you please .  I take you at your word , and thanke you sir .  No sir , no ,  It shall be a match , or no match ere I goe .  I thanke you Mrs. and I le bring her shortly to bestow mony w 'yee in China wares .  And purer too I hope .  As man can be being so neare a wife .  I am not going sir .  What say you to me sir Hugh ?  No sir Hugh .  How mean you that ?  To shew my love unto your daughter sir I le pay 't .  Pray lend me sir a hundred Peeces .  What , when they know her grandfather dispos'd her ,  That has the care of her , and gives her portion ?  And then he can ha' but his money , can hee ?  There said you well ; the straight ones I like well :  But those that men call right , or good ones , suffer  A by Construction .  In that he has said well : I would the Bride  And Priest were come once ; I am content they stand  For witnesses : what my kind Nephew are you here ?  I thanke you for your plot , you see what 't is come to .  But it may bee   How 's this ? my bride in mourning habit , & her head in willow ?  Women how is it with her ?  How 's that I pray you . you have bin doing something afore-hand sir .  Have I ?  Is she so drest ?  Deceite becomes not dying men you know ,  Into a whirlepoole of confusion  Sinke thou and all thy family , accursed miser .  You knew not where I could be so well fitted .  A rot o' your dissembling intrailes , spit 'hem out , you durst not strain your selfe to wind your whistle , your Doctor told you it would spend your spirits , so made me whistle for her   And may it last thee to thy lives last houre .  Come hither Nephew ,  I le give thee a thousand pound , and take her off me .  Prethee doe , trye thy Poeticall souldier .  Now am I cheated both wayes .  Nephew , and Gentlemen , I am friends with all ,  You had your plot upon me , I had mine . 