 HEere sir , I am here forsooth .  Listning is good sometimes ; I heard their talke , and am glad on 't .  My Mrs. Annabell , forsooth , my young Mrs ?  Is the old man mad troe ?  Blesse me ! how doe you looke ?  How youthfull you are growne ? she is not farre to fetch sir ; you know you commanded her to her chamber , and not to  appeare in sight , till her debauch'd father was gone out o' the house .  I warrant hee has told you some tale on her . That lewd Knight , now he has undone himselfe by his unthrifty practises , begins to practise the undoing of his daughter too ! is it not so forsooth ? has he not put some wickednesse into your head to set you against her ?  Ha , ha , ha ; I warrant hee told you that your adversary Touchwoods sonne , and my Mistris Annabell are in love league together .  Ha , ha , ha .  No , no ; but I laugh at the poore Knights officiousnes , in hope of some great reward for the gullery that I put upon him : ha , ha , ha . Good sir a little patience , and I will tell ! you . Ha , ha , ha — 't was I that devised it for a lye , and told it him in hope that his telling of it to you , would provoke you to beate him out o' the house ; for reporting a thing that had no probability or resemblance of a truth in it .  Sir I have beene your creature this thirty yeares , downe lying and uprising ; ( as you know ) and you should beleeve mee , you had me in my old Mistresses dayes — —  Yet not so wondrous old as to be sung in a Ballet for 't , or to have beene able ere Adam wore beard to have crept into Eves bed , as I did into my Mistresses . ( Heaven pardon you , as I doe with all my heart . )  Nor so old neither but you are content to make a sorry shift with me still ; as your abilities will serve you —  Nay that 's not it that troubles me : but that I , that serv'd you before your daughter was borne ; I meane your daughter that  was mother to this daughter which now you have made your daughter ; that I that saw the birth , the marriage , and the death of your daughter ; and have had the governance of this her daughter ever since , till now she is marriageable ; and have all this while beene as plyant as a twig about you , and as true as the sheath to your steele as we say , that I should now be mistrusted to connive at an il match for her , for whom my chiefest care has bin from the Cradle ? there 's the unkindnesse .  I thought you had knowne me —  And you would tye me so too ; would you ?  Agreed sir ; agreed .  'T was well I over-heard 'em , my young lovers had bin spoyl'd else : had not I crost the old angry mans purpose before he had met with the young timerous Virgin , she had confest all ; and and all had bin dash'd now .  Jf he were as safe out o' the world , it were well for you .  Your unlucky father has destroyed all your hopes in Mr.  Sam Touchwood ; in discovering your loves ( what Divell soever gave him the intelligence ) and you must resolve never to see your sweet Sam againe .  Ods pitty ! how now ! why Mrs. why Annabell , why Mrs. Annabell ; looke up , looke up I say , and you shall have him spight of your Grand-father and all his workes : what doe you thinke I am an Infidell , to take Mr. Samuels forty peeces ? and a Ronlet of old Muskadine for nothing ? come be well , and indeed you shall have him .  These love-sicke maides seldome call upon other Saints then their sweet-hearts ; looke up I say , your sweet Sam is comming .  I say he will come presently ; looke up I say , forgive me ! he comes indeed : my Mr. thought I was a witch , and I now suspect my selfe for one . Oh Mr. Samuel , how came you hither ? here he is Mrs. what meane you to come now to undoe her and your selfe too ? yet she had dyed and you had not come as you did . Why doe you not looke upon him and be well ? get you gone , we are all undone if my Mr. come backe and find you : speake to her quickly , then kisse her and part , you will bee parted for ever else .  I made you not dye , as you will dye , if you stand pratling till my Mr. returne and take you : for Mr. Samuel , I must tell you Mr. Samuel , he knowes all Mr. Samuel .  What horrible thing must we doe troe ? pray let mee see the paper , I hope there is no pistolling nor poisoning in it : though my old Striker come short of the man he was to bee with me , I would be loath to shorten his dayes with the danger of my neck ; or making a Bon-fire in Smithfield : pray let me see the paper .  Is there such horrour in it , that you dare not stand the opening of the paper ?  As I live my Master —  Kisse and away ; whip quickly through the Garden —  Run you up to your Chamber ; I le see you out my selfe .  Whoope what d' ee meane ?  Goe fooles , this sets you both but more on edge .  YOu are welcome home sir .  You are the better able then to heare  And beare what I must tell you .  As well as a young woman  In her case may doe sir .  T will out , and I as fit to tell 't you as another .  T is true , I fac'd you downe there was no league  Betweene young Touch-wood , and your Neece , in hope  To turne her heart from him before the knowledge  Of any thing that past should be a griefe to you :  But since I have discover'd t is too late ;  And she can be fit bride for no man else .  You speake as just as Gormans lips .  Sir , if you thinke  The knowledge of a truth of this sad nature  May prejudice your health , by drawing a Cholericke fit into you , you were best to send for your Physitian , your dog-leech Touchwood , as you cal'd him , to breake your bed of Fleagme , by laughing at you .  I say young Touch-wood has touch'd , and clap'd your neece ;  And ( which is worse ) with scorne and foule disdaine  Has left and quite forsaken ; and is gone :  ( They say ) sent by his father to travaile .  T were good you would forsake the thought of hell sir ,  And thinke upon some timely course to save  Her credit , and the honour of your house by marriage .  Indeed I knew too much on 't : think of a course good sir .  Sir that you must not .  In your owne house sir , kill us if you please ,  And take the sinne upon you ; but out of it  You must not dare to thrust us with your shame :  Which I will so divulge , as you shall finde  Your house to be no sanctuary for your selfe ;  And there I le be with you .  Consider wisely that I know you sir ,  And can make foule relation of some passages  That you will shame to heare .  Remember sir , neare thirty yeares agoe ,  You had a sister , whose great marriage portion  Was in your hands : good gentlewoman , she  Vnfortunately loving a false Squire ,  Just as your Neece hath now , did get a clap :  You know sir what I meane .  I le speake it though I dye for 't ; better here  Than in a worse place : So clapt I say she was ,  I know not yet by whom you doe , and beare  An inward grudge against some body to this houre for 't .  But to my story , good gentlewoman she  Was by your most unbrotherly cruell usage  Thrust out a doores , as now you threaten us :  And miserably big-bellied as she was  Leaving her most unjustly detain'd her portion  In your false hands , forsooke you and the towne ,  To flie the aire , where her disgrace was spread :  Some jewells and some gold she had conceal'd :  But to what part o' th' world shee took we know not ,  Nor did you ever care , but wisht her out on 't ,  By any desperate end , after her flight  From portion , blood and name ; and so perhaps  Immediately she was : for which , this judgement  Is justly falne upon you .  Neither by threats , nor bribes , nor all perswasion ,  Untill you take your Neece into your care :  What will the world say when it heares this story  Of your owne naturall sister , and your cruelty ,  When you shall second it with your Neeces shame ?  Nay , more than this , old Striker , I le impeach  You for foule incontinence ; and shaking your  Old Bullion Tronkes over my Trucklebed .  I value neither shame , nor name , nor fame ;  And wealth I have none to lose ; you have enough  To pay for all I take it .  Be of good cheere , I le send for your Physitian .  I hope I have laid the heat of his severity ,  So sometimes great offences passe for none ,  When severe Iudges dare not heare their owne .  Who would you speak with .  He is so sir , but he is not in case to buy any cattell at this time .  What strange fellow is this troe ?  What was her name I pray ?  Hoyden .  Most wonderfull , but is she dead ?  Pray what were you to her ?  Good heaven , how things will come about !  Your Vncle Striker at this time is very sicke sir , but I will acquaint him with your desire : pray walke into the next roome the while sir .  This to me is the greatest wonder of all , that I am presently possess'd of my Mrs. sullen sicknes , which has ee'n drawn him to deaths doore , and my Mistresses unfortunable condition are nothing to this Country Hoydens relation :  Let not the sadnesse of this place dismay you .  Not altogether dead sir   She is in bodily health sir , but very sad and much disconsolate , poore Damsell .  I marvaile at your mirth sir .  Alas he is offended with her , she has displeased him in somewhat , that is the maine cause of his mortall sicknesse .  She comes not at him sir , nor dares not see him : do you know any thing by her sir ?  If you doe sir , would you would speake a good word for her , that he may dye in charity with her .  Nay good sir say not so , after so many messages and entreaties , by all the best o' the parish , and an exhortation made to you by the Minister himselfe : did you vouchsafe to come , and wil you now come short to see my Master , now the Doctors have given him over , and he is dying ?  I hope you wil be friends with him now sir ; for he 's ee'n a going .  Looke you sir here he is .  Yes sir ; he will not yield by any perswasion to dye in his bed .  O you are a hard-hearted man .  I le tell you then that which you know already ,  Although you keepe it for a joy within you :  Your wicked sonne has by her owne confession  Done that unto her , that unlesse he play  The honest mans part and marry her , he will  Full dearely answer it in Hell .  T is so :  She has confest it to her grandfather ,  To me , and Mr. Pancridge here is made  Acquainted with it .  Vnconscionable wretch , thou hast kild my Mr.   Well fare your heart old Master .  Ha , ha , ha .  Will you eate a peece of Ginger-bread for your Winde Sir .  O murder , murder .  My Nailes shall right me : I le teach him to kick a woman .  O Villaine kicke a woman !  No , this is my Mr.   And for your health , I hope sir .  He made me thinke he was your sisters sonne I am sure .  Sir here 's the Knight come againe , that has been here in the time of your sicknesse to have seene you , and my Mistris , but  could not : and left a letter for you once : hee that looks women through so .  Yes I told him you were so , so .  Here is the Knight sir .  I cannot get her from her work ; nor to  Beleeve me that you sent for her , because  I told her that a gentleman was with you   Sir , here 's a gentleman presses at my heeles  To speak with you .  It was well I sent for thee Neece , to helpe me decke the Bride here ; and that the jealous foole thy husband thinkes thou art gone astray the while ; it will be a meanes for thee to take thy liberty another night , and pay him home indeed , when he shall not have the power to mistrust thee : it is the common condition of Cuckolds to mistrust so much afore hand , that when they are Dub'd indeed , they have not a glympse of suspition left .  Nay I doe not perswade you , take the downe-right way ,  Nothing against your Conscience Neece ; I sent  For him to ha come and found you here by chance ;  But he has shut up house , and is runne mad  About the Towne I heare to all your haunts .  Yes , that 's a wise wives part .  Yes sir , she 's drest .  She 's at her private prayers yet sir , she .  Oh me ; why Mistris look up , look up I say .  Sprinkle cold water on her face .  Sir , as with other women in her case .  You may leave laughing , it was your sonne that did it .  Live lovingly and honestly I charge you , or come not at mee when I am married . 