 And so would any man I thinke that has such a help and commings in by his wife as you have : t is not your durty Sparagus , your Artichoaks , your Carpes , your Tulips , your Strawberries , can bring you in five hundred pound a yeare , if my helping hand , and braine too were not in the businesse ?  Poore pidling doings ; some foure and twenty pound .  But eight and twenty shillings , and kept the roome almost two houres , I had no more of him .  Almost foure pound .  But her husband , and a couple of serving-men had a dish of Sparagus , and three bottles of wine , besides the broken meate into one o' the Arbors .  Yes they sent last night to bespeake a ten pound dinner , but I halfe feare their comming will keep out some of our more constant , and more profitable customers .  Yes , but hutchingly , and are now going away .  That was your reckoning in all sir ; wee make no account of particulars , but all to Mall , as they doe in the Netherlands .  That 's as you please sir , a faire day after you :  Who would be troubled with such pinching guests ?  They are ee'n as welcome as the Knight that comes hither alone alwayes , and walkes about the garden here halfe a day together , to feed upon Ladyes lookes , as they passe to and fro ; the peeping Knight , whát doe you call him ?  You may call him Cautious , I never saw five shillings of his money yet .  Sir Hugh-Money-lacke , our gather-guest as we call him , sends us no such dull customers : O that good Gentleman I never did any taverne , Inne , or new Ordinary give tribute to a more deserving gentleman — oh here come gallants .  You are pleasant gentlemen : what is your pleasure ?  Not yet sir .  Have you any more company to come to you ?  Gentlemen did you say ?  Intruth sir all the roomes within are gone .  You are alwayes pleasant sir : I meane they are all taken up .  Still you are pleasant sir : they are indeed bespoken for great Courtiers , and Ladyes that are to dine here .  You shall have it gentlemen .  No indeed sir Hugh , here 's two Peece for last week and this .  How did you heare it goes forsooth ?  I heard forsooth that all young wives should dye that were pure maids when they were marryed .  So report goes forsooth . 