 Onely a few neighbourly and friendly words sir .  Yet you may be pleas'd sir to remember , though our fathers were both loving friends to you , yet they were sometimes at odds one with another .  And note the cause , the ground of their reconciliation , which was upon the love , betwixt me and this gentlemans sister . My fathers Sonne married his fathers Daughter , and our two fathers grew friends , and wise men agen .  Troth sir the poynt is this : You know ( and the towne has tane sufficient notice of it ) that there has been a long contention betwixt you and old Mr. Striker your neighbour —  And the cause or ground of your quarrell ( for ought any body  knowes but your selves ) may be as triviall , as that which was derided in our fathers .  And great hopes there are , and wagers laid by your friends on both sides , that you two will be friends .  Nay , more , that Mr. Striker will bee willing to give his Grand-child to your Son , so you 'l give your consent .  But when you weigh the reasons , and consider the perfect love of the yong paire , and how the world will praise your reconciliation , and blesse the providence , that made their loves the meanes to worke their parents charity .  Your selfe but now commended the attonement  Of our two fathers , wrought by the same meanes :  I meane my marriage with his sister here  Against as great an opposition .  Will you sir , by your wilfulnesse , cast away your sonne ?  What an uncharitable wretch is this ?  I fear'd we should inflame him .  BUt the danger is , his father may dis-inherit him   Not at all I assure you , Sam is his fathers nowne sonne : for the old man you see , is gentle enough , till he be incens'd ; and the sonne being mov'd , is as fiery as the father .  I prethee would'st thou have greene wood take fire as soone as that which is old and sere ?  Over head and eares in his Mrs. contemplation .  How now Sam , whither away ?  Marry sir ha we , and I thinke to purpose .  Briefly he sayes you must not dare to see him ;  Nor hope to receive blessing to the valew  Of a new three-pence , till you disclaime your love  In your faire Annabell ; and not onely so ,  But you must doe some villanous mischievous act  To vexe his adversary , her Grand-father ;  Or walke beneath his curse in banishment .  Oh friend you are too violent .  Be not so passionate .  Prethee blow o're this passion ; thou wert wont  To affect wit , and canst not be a Lover  Truely without it . Love is wit it selfe ,  And through a thousand lets will find a way  To his desired end .  Well said , Love will find out the way :  I see thou art comming to thy selfe againe ,  Can there no shift , no witty slight be found  ( That have been common in all times and ages )  To blind the eyes of a weake-sighted father ,  And reconcile these dangerous differences  But by blood-shedding , or outragious deeds ,  To make the feud the greater ? recollect  Thy selfe good Sam ; my house , my purse , my counsell  Shall all be thine , and Wat shall be thy friend .  So , so , all friends ; let 's home and there consult  To lay the tempest of thy fathers fury ;  Which cannot long be dangerous , 't is but like  A storme in April , spent in swift extreames ,  When straight the Sun shootes forth his cheerefull beames .  We saw 't not acted sir , nor had reported it ,  But on those termes of honour you have sworne to ;  In which you are engaged first to forgive  Your sonne : then never to reveale to friend ,  Or foe , the knowledge of the fact .  Sir , can a sonne  Doe his fathers will too fully ?  Pray turne not from him sir .  Goodnesse of nature .  This is his daily haunt : I warrant thee we find him .  By your leave Mr. and Mrs. or rather Lord and Lady of the new plantation here .  Saw you Sir Arnold Cautious here to day ?  Ha' you a roome i' your house for us ?  Yes indeed gentlemen , no gentlewomen I assure you .  What they are not gone abroad , are they ?  There are some taken up in 'hem , is 't not so ?  Be it so then ; le ts walke about gentlemen . Pray send us some wine .  Did you note the wit o' the woman ?  Why I assure you , right noble , and right vertuous persons , and of both sexes doe frequent the place .  ANd what 's the price of this feast boy ?  What art thou a French-man ?  Goe get you gone with your wit , and tell your prodigall fooles so .  Sam you are too sad ; let not your disguise alter you with us : Come here 's a health to the Hans in Kelder , and the mother of the boy , if it prove so .  T is such a Knightling , I le but give yee his Character , and and he comes I warrant thee ; he is an infinite admirer of beauty , and dares not touch a woman : he is aged about fifty , and a batchelour : he defies wed locke , because he thinkes there is not a maiden-head - in any marriagable beauty to be found among Women .  He gets a crick in his neck oft-times with squinting up at windowes and Belconies ; and as he walkes the streets , he peepes on both sides at faire breasts and faces , as he were seeking Birds-nests ; and followes pretty feet and insteps like a hare tracker .  And when he sees a Coach of Ladies about to alight , hee makes a stand , in hope to see a delicate legge slip through a lac'd smocke , which if he chance to discover he drivells .  I grant the attempt is hard , but the higher will be the atchievement : trust my experience Sam : for as in every instrument are all tunes to him that has the skill to find out the stops , so in every man there are all humours to him that can find their faussets , and draw 'hem out to his purpose .  Thy unnaturall Vuncle thou would'st say ; hee ne're did thee good in 's life : Act but thine owne part , and be not out Sam , and feare nothing .  And these are noble ones indeed ; these are Courtiers Clinquant , and no counterfeit stuffe upon 'hem : I know 'hem all , every Lady with her owne husband too : what a vertuous ' honest age is this : and see if thine Vncle bee not at his old game , bopeepe i' the taile of 'hem . Hee shall follow 'hem no further : Sir Arnold Cautious , Noble Knight you are well encounter'd .  Yes , and noble ones , the three Graces of the Court , the Lady Stately , the Lady Handsome , and the Lady peerelesse , doe not you know 'hem ?  How the slave twitters ; you look not up at greatnes , you mind too much the worldly things that are beneath you : if you had such a Lady under you , ( of your owne I meane ) you would mind her .  Looke no more after 'hem , they are gone : besides they are vertuous , and too too great for you : when will you get a convenient wife of your owne , to work out the dry itch of a stale Batchelour ?  Will you goe this way with me then , and heare what I wil say to you ?  You have a Nephew , whose sister I marryed , a vertuous wife she is , and I love him the better for 't ; he is a younger brother , and borne to no great fortune : now you are very rich , a Batchelour , and therefore I thinke child lesse —  Nay good Sir Arnold Cautious , you know not what I le say .  He does not , shall not , not to the value of a token : pray stay , and heare me sir ; t is no ill ayre to stay in .  Will you be pleas'd to doe your kinsman the favour to further him in a match ; I mean an honest lawfull marriage match — but with your countenance , and a good word at most .  Heare but who it is that he loves , how likely he is to obtaine , what abundant profit the match may bring him , and the desperate undoing danger he falls into if he be not matched , and then doe your pleasure .  Oh sir , he is now in league with a companion more dreadfull than 'hem all , a fellow that is in part a Poet , and in part a Souldier .  You have hit upon his name : his name is Bounce , do you know him sir ?  He is a gentleman sir , that has been upon some unfortunate late services , that have not answer'd his merit .  Good introth , I wish you would see 'hem , to come over 'hem with a jeere or two ; I know you are good at it : They are in an Arbour here close by , drinking to their Muses , and glorifying one another for eithers excellency in the art most Poetically .  Abroad perhaps and asunder , but together there 's no such amity : You never saw 'hem drinke ; pray see 'hem sir , it may take your Nephew off of his Ningle , who hath infected him with Poetry already : and twenty to one , if he faile in the match , which I was about to mention ; he will winne him away to the wars too , and then he may be lost for ever .  I commend your temper : you shall not bee in the reckoning ; but I beseech you let me prevaile with you : See , wee are upon hem : save you Gentlemen : I have brought you a noble friend , your uncle ; I know he is welcome to you brother Wat ; and you I am sure will make him so Mr. Bounce : when you shall heare he is an admirer of Poetry and warre .  Well said Poet , thou tumblest out old ends as well as the best of 'hem .  Hold , hold .  Gentlemen what meane yee ?  You have wrong'd us all , and me the most .  Now it workes .  Will you sir stand his friend ?  He is catch'd .  Sir , as we walk you shall know all : I le pay the reckoning within as we passe .  Poetry , though it be of a quite contrary nature , is as pretty a jewell as plaine dealing , but they that use it forget the Proverb .  I come to crye you mercy , and this good gentleman ;  And this sweet Gentlewoman , who I take it  Is his faire Neece , of whom you are in treaty ;  If it be not already gone too farre ;  Let me entreate you not to put your finger  Further i' the businesse in behalfe of your Nephew .  T is that repents me :  Your base unworthy Nephew has abus'd me ;  I doe not speake it for a slight hurt he has gi'n me ,  But for his breach of Faith to another Virgin .  And the false way , the plot he had upon you ,  To put you on this enterprize , the Quarrell  In which he rescu'd you , to indeere himselfe to you ,  Was a meere counterfeit squable , a very tricke  Contriv'd betwixt him and his brother Poet  T' abuse your goodnesse :  J leave it to your consideration sir :  I am in haste ; and so I wish you health sir ;  And you much happinesse in a husband Lady .  What 's here ?  Now break in upon 'hem ; save you sir Hugh .  He shall betray nothing .  You see we have our plot in action too , sir Hugh , and it runnes fairely on .  Take heed you have not a crosse plot in that itching pate of yours to spoyle all now .  And I sweare I will , or cut these hands off ; I thought good to tell you so , because I know what tricks you have done , & what discoveries you have made for small parcells of ready money .  Sir you forget your selfe .  Good sir forbeare , make not an Idoll of me .  This is a stout roring Clowne .  Remember we have warn'd you sir Hugh , we must leave you .  But ha you heard the newes of his young Mistris ?  I you must think  There have beene knavish heads us'd in the businesse .  We might ha spar'd this labour : he was resolv'd before we came it seemes to spoyle the marriage .  And we are no lesse sure , that sir Hugh Mony-lacks will set his strength to life Sir Cautious off o' the hooks , in hope of a matter of 5.  Pound , though he forfeit the obligation of his throat by 't .  For that my letter of instructions , which I have given Annabell shall prevent him ; and Striker keeps Sir Cautious in his house so warily , that untill the intended wedding houre , Sr.  Hugh shall not obtaine admittance .  I cannot ghesse .  O' my life it is the roring Clowne , about the new made Gentleman his brother .  If he were your brother sir , that you found at Sir Hugh Money-lacks lodging , you know we left him in your hands .  Alas poore Britleware .  And I will undertake Sir Hugh Mony-lacks will be at the Bride-house .  Well , here is such a knot now to untie ,  As would turne Oedipus his braine awry .  Though you are fully bent to crosse the marriage ,  Yet le ts entreat you not to be too suddaine .  A friend of Wats he brought for company .  Sir , will it please you first to see a match quickely clapt up ? This Gentleman whom I know every way deserving , were your Neece now in her prime of Fortune and of Vertue , desires to have her , and she him as much . 