 That is a way my Lord has bin allow'd  On elder stages to move mirth and laughter .  I heard of him my Lord : Blaze gave me light  Of the mad Patient ; and that he never saw  A Play in 's life : it will be possible  For him to thinke he is in the Antipodes  Indeed , when he is on the Stage among us .  When 't has beene thought by some that have their wits ,  That all the Players i' th' Towne were sunke past rising .  All my Lord ,  Onely we want a person for a Mute .  O are you here ? my Lady , and my selfe  Have sought you sweetly .  For we heard you were  To be arrested . Pray sir , who has bail'd you ?  I wonder who of all your bold acquaintance  That knowes my Lady durst baile off her husband .  Have you not made  An end by composition , and disburs'd  Some of my Ladies money for a peace  That shall beget an open warre upon you ?  Confesse it if you have : for 't will come out .  She 'll ha' you up you know . I speak it for your good .  Doe as my Lady bids , you got her woman  With child at halfe these words .  There said you well ; but take heed I advise you  How you love your owne wench , or your owne wife  Better then other mens .  Come , come , ye Gallows-clappers .  To strangers Sir I can be gentle .  They would dye dunces else .  So sir have wee ; and many reverend teachers ,  Grave counsellors at law ; perfect statesmen .  That never knew use of Rasor , which may live  For want of wit to loose their offices .  These were great schollers in their youth . But when  Age growes upon men here , their learning wasts ,  And so decayes ; that if they live untill  Threescore , their sons send them to schoole againe .  They 'd dye as speechlesse else as new born children .  T is granted .  Hold up your heads and thanke the gentleman  Like schollers , with your heeles now .  T is our custome  To deny strangers nothing : yea , to offer  Of any thing we have , that may be usefull ,  In curtesie to strangers . Will you therefore  Be pleas'd to enter Sir this habitation ,  And take such vyands , beverage , and repose  As may refresh you after tedious travailes ?  Vertue in the Antipodes onely dwells .  My Lord the madde young Gentleman . —  He has got into our Tyring-house amongst us ,  And tane a strict survey of all our properties ,  Our statues and our images of Gods ; our Planets and our constellations  Our Giants , Monsters , Furies , Beasts , and Bug-Beares ,  Our Helmets Shields , and Vizors , Haires , and Beards ,  Our Pastbord March-paines , and our Wooden Pies .  Whether he thought t' was some inchanted Castle ,  Or Temple , hung and pild with Monuments  Of uncouth , and of various aspects ,  I dive not to his thoughts , wonder he did  A while it seem'd , but yet undanted stood :  When on the suddaine , with thrice knightly force ,  And thrice , thrice , puissant arme he snatcheth downe  The sword and shield that I playd Bevis with ,  Rusheth amongst the foresaid properties ,  Kils Monster , after Monster ; takes the Puppets  Prisoners , knocks downe the Cyclops , tumbles all  Our jigambobs and trinckets to the wall .  Spying at last the Crowne and royall Robes  i th upper wardrobe , next to which by chance ,  The divells vizors hung , and their flame painted  Skin coates ; those he remov'd with greater fury ,  And ( having cut the infernall ugly faces ,  All into mamocks ) with a reverend hand ,  He takes the imperiall diadem and crownes  Himselfe King of the Antipodes , and beleeves  He has justly gaind the Kingdome by his conquest .  Doctor Hughball  Hath sooth'd him in 't , so that nothing can  Be said against it , he begins to governe  With purpose to reduce the manners  Of this country to his owne , h' has constituted  The Doctor his chiefe officer ; whose Secretary  I am to be , you 'l see a Court well orderd .  I goe my Lord .  Exit .   Officer .  Call the defendant , and the Plaintiffe in .  How now !  How long ha you beene free oth Poyntmakers ,  Good master hilt and scaberd carrier ;  ( Which is in my hands now ) do you give order  For counsell and for witnesses in a cause  Fit for my hearing , or for me to judge , haw ?  I must be rul'd and circumscrib'd by Lawyers must I ,  And witnesses haw ? no you shall know  I can give judgement , be it right or wrong ,  Without their needlesse proving and defending :  So bid the Lawyers goe and shake their eares ,  If they have any , and the witnesses ,  Preserve their breath to prophesie of dry summers .  Bring me the plaintiffe , and defendant only :  But the defendant first , I will not heare  Any complaint before I understand  What the defendant can say for himselfe .  Now sir , are you the plaintiffe or defendant , haw ?  I cannot  Heare two at once , speake first as y' are defendant .  I will heare no  Complaint , I say speake your defence .  A Mercer is he , haw ?  That I like well .  Complaines againe ? do you double with me , haw ?  Of his wife , does he , haw ? That I must confesse  Is many a good mans case ; you may proceed .  That is unworne , unpawned .  Hee l have  Your body for her then , unlesse I empt  My brest of mercy to appease her for you ,  Call in the plaintiffe ; sir , stand you aside .  Exit Officer .   Come you forwards ,  Yet nerer man , J know my face is terrible ,  And that a Citizen had rather lose  His debt , then that a Judge should truely know  His dealings with a gentleman , yet speake ,  Repeat without thy shop booke now ; and without  Feare , it may rise in judgement here against thee .  What is thy full demand ? what satisfaction  Requirest thou of this gentleman ?  T was well said Sword-bearer ,  Thou knowst thy place , which is to shew correction .  La ! an intelligent Citizen , and may grow  In time himselfe to sit in place of worship .  You may not .  You argue honestly .  Nor though a gentleman consume  His whole estate among ye , yet his sonne  May live t' inherit it ?  Well ,  This has so little to be said against it ,  That you say nothing . Gentlemen it seems  Y' are obstinate , and will stand out —  That 's from the poynt .  Peace , I should  Now give my sentence , and for your contempt ,  ( which is a great one , such as if let passe  Unpunished , may spread forth a dangerous  Example , to the breach of City custome ,  By gentlemens neglect of Tradesmens wives )  I should say for this contempt commit you  Prisoner from sight of any other woman ,  Untill you give this mans wife satisfaction ,  And she release you ; justice so would have it :  But as I am a Citizen by nature ,  ( For education made it so ) I le use  Urbanity in your behalfe towards you ;  And as I am a gentleman by calling ,  ( For so my place must have it ) I le performe  For you the office of a gentleman  Towards his wife , I therefore order thus ;  That you bring me the wares here into Court ,  ( I have a chest shall hold 'hem , as mine owne )  And you send me your wife , I le satisfie her  My selfe . I le do 't , and set all streight and right :  Justice is blinde , but Judges have their sight .  No : dismisse the Court ,  Embrace you friends , and to shun further strife ,  See you send me your stuffe , and you your wife .  Let me pray  Your Majesty be pleased , yet to with-hold  That undeserved honour , till you first  Vouchsafe to grace the City with your presence ,  Accept one of our Hall-feasts , and a freedome ,  And freely use our purse for what great summes  Your Majesty will please .  Yet on me let it fall ,  Since t is your highnesse will , Scabbard and all .  Let me finde favour in your gracious sight  To taste a banquet now , which is prepar'd ,  And shall be by your followers quickly shar'd .  Your Projects are all good I like them wel .  Especially these two ; This for th' increase of wooll :  And this for the destroying of Mice : They 'r good ,  And grounded on great reason . As for yours ,  For putting downe the infinite use of Iacks ,  ( Whereby the education of young children ,  In turning spits , is greatly hindred )  It may be look'd into : And yours against  The multiplicity of pocket-watches ,  ( Whereby much neighbourly familiarity ,  By asking , what de' yee gesse it is a Clocke ?  Is lost ) when every puny Clerke can carry  The time o th' day in 's Breeches ; This , and these  Hereafter may be looke into : For present ;  This for the increase of Wool ; that is to say ,  By fleying of live horses , and new covering them  With Sheeps-skins , I doe like exceedingly .  And this for keeping of tame Owles in Cities ,  To kill up Rats and Mice , whereby all Cats  May be destroyed , as an especiall meanes  To prevent witch-craft and contagion .  What are they ? let me heare .  A Batchelour !  And young , and healthfull ?  Alas t is lamentable : he deserves much pitty .  How old was she when she set up ?  She is decai'd .  'Lasse good woman ,  She shall have a Collection , and deserves it .  For such the Law provides  Reliefe within those Counties , where they practis'd .  The weale publicke ,  As it severely punisheth their neglect ,  Undone by fire ruines , shipwracke , and the like ,  With whips , with brands , and losse of carelesse eares ,  Imprisonment , banishment , and sometimes death ;  And carefully maintaineth houses of Correction  For decay'd Schollars , and maim'd Souldiers ;  So doth it finde reliefe . and almes-houses ,  For such as liv'd by Rapine and by Cosenage .  Who 's that ?  I le get it him .  Mercy great King .  Let not our ignorance suffer in your wrath ,  Before we understand your highnesse Lawes ,  We went by custome , and the warrant , which  We had in your late Predecessors raigne ;  But let us know your pleasure , you shall finde  The State and Common-wealth in all obedient ,  To alter Custome , Law , Religion , all ,  To be conformable to your commands .  Great Sir we shall .  In signe whereof we lacerate these papers .  Letoy , Diana , Ioylesse , appeare above .   And lay our necks beneath your Kingly feet .  your Grace  Abounds — abounds — your Grace — I say abounds .  I have all now my Lord .  A voyce out of the clouds , that doth applaud  Your highnesse welcome to your subjects loves .  A voyce that doth informe me of the tydings  Spread through your kingdome , of your great arrivall ;  And of the generall joy your people bring  To celebrate the welcome of their king .  Showts within .   Hearke how the countrey shouts with joyfull votes ,  Rending the ayre with musick of their throats .  drum & trumpets   Hearke how the souldier , with his martiall noise ,  Threatens your foes , to fill your Crowne with joyes .  Hearke how the City , with loud harmony ,  Haughboyes .   Chaunts a free welcome to your majesty .  Heark how the Court prepares your grace to meet  Soft musick .   With solemne musick , state and beauty sweet .  Now Sir be happy in a marriage choyce ,  That shall secure your title of a king .  See sir , your state presents to you the daughter ,  The onely childe and heire apparant of  Our late deposed and deceased Soveraigne ,  Who with his dying breath bequeath'd her to you .  For safety of your Kingdome , you must do it .  Haughtboies Exit in state as Letoy directs . Manet Letoy .   What aile you sir : why Bawd ? whose Bawd is she ?  You are jealous mad .  Suppose your wife be missing at your Chamber ,  And my Lord too at his , they may be honest :  If not , what 's that to her , or you I pray ,  Here in my Lords owne house ?  Shee has not seene them . I heard all your talke .  The Child she intimated , is your grandchild  In posse sir , and of your sonnes begetting .  I can give no account ,  If she be with my Lord I dare not trouble hem .  Nor must you offer at it : no nor stab your selfe .  Byp. takes away his dagger .   But come with me : we counsell , or , at least ,  Governe you better : Shee may be , perhaps ,  About the Bride-chamber , to heare some sport ;  For you can make her none ; 'lasse good old man .  Vnlesse  The killing of your selfe may do 't ; and that  J would forbeare , because perhaps 't would please her .  J have more care and charge of you than so .  Take your dudgeon Sir ,  I ha done you simple service .  I brought you to the stand from whence you saw  How the game went .  I seemd to doe it against my will , by which I gain'd  Your bribe of twenty peeces .  But I assure you , my Lord give me order ,  To place you there , after it seemes he had  Well put her to 't within .  I must take charge I see o' th' dagger againe .  Take your dagger Sir ,  Now I dare trust you . 