 I come to present a gentleman to you sir .  He findes your defect already ; but be bold sir , he desires to be a Gentleman sir ; and ( tho' he be but course mettall , yet ) he has that about him which with your helpe may quickly make him a cleare Gentleman .  Oh but you must not , it becomes not the temper of a Gentleman .  Your small acquaintance sir .  No , nor cannot learne who it is for my life .  He speaks halfe like a gentleman already .  What wants he of a gentleman , and goe no further , but save the last hundred .  As how ?  Feare nothing sir : your blood shal be taken out by degrees , and your veines replenish'd with pure blood still , as you loose the puddle .  Said ? What will not Women say ?  What gentleman is that ?  The Look , the garbe , the congee —  T is pitty he should be flead .  Yes , by all meanes , and see the laying out of your money .  Is it possible that you can consider this , and bee almost a gentleman ?  Doe you note how his wit rises ?  But what doe you thinke of your wit hundred pound ?  Take heed how you crosse him .  And you shall have him , a pretty little knave , you may put him in your pocket .  Why doe you not correct him sir ?  Mon. Ha , ha , ha .  What a rude Rascall 't is ? you are happy that he is gone .  Without that confidence you are nothing .  Excellent , doe you not marke how finely he comes on ?  Now you fall backe againe , and derogate from the condition of a gentleman most grosly , to think any thing too deare you eate or drinke .  Noble Master Fine-wit , the single example of Court-Ceremony , if my apprehension deale fairely with me .  Sir , I shall ever blesse the promptnesse of my memory , in being so fortunate to collect the fallacious acquaintance of so compleat a goodnesse .  Sir , you have such a conquering way in humility , that hee shall be sure to come off vanquish'd that offers to contend with you .  See you yon fellow I held complement with ?  The arrantst trifle in a Kingdome .  Made onely to make physicke worke : a very lumpe of laughter .  He 's runne mad with his hornes .  He 'll come agen , neare doubt him .  Slid 't is his Clowne brother he spake of ?  He 's runne mad , after his wife , now he should look to his house . 