 A rare man : Husband , truely I like his person  As well as his rare skill .  O jealousie !  Ha' you bin there Sir , ha' you seene those trees ?  Brought you none of that fruit home with you sir ?  Y'd ha 't for you ,  In hope you might out-live your jealousie .  Would I had given him halfe my love , to settle  The tother halfe free from incumbrances  Upon my husband .  That I like well in him too , he will not boast of kissing  A woman too neare home .  What with their heeles upwards ?  Blesse us ! how scape they breaking o' their necks ?  And yet just under us !  Where is hell then ? if they whose feet are towards us ,  At the lower part of the world have heaven too  Beyond their heads , where 's hell ?  Sure Hell 's above ground then in jealous husbands .  J so indeed ,  Though heeles goe upwards , and their feet should slip ,  They have no necks to breake .  There 's pretious bribing then .  You will hold your peace .  But pray Sir , is 't by nature or by art ,  That wives oresway their husbands there ?  Then art 's above nature , as they are under us .  Why then the women  Doe get the men with child : and put the poore fooles  To grievous paine I warrant you in bearing .  That is a trim  Upside-downe Antipodian tricke indeed .  Are not their Swannes all blacke , and Ravens white ?  That 's very strange .  Then there are cuckolds too it seemes ,  As well as here .  By hearesay Sir . I am not wise enough  To speake it on my knowledge yet .  What fine sport would that be here now !  Ha' they Poets .  I never saw a play .  In sooth a mervailous neate and costly one   To whom shall I restore it ?  Is he a Lord ? I alwayes thought and heard  i th' Country , Lords were gallant Creatures . He  Looks like a thing not worth it : t is not his ,  The Doctor gave it me , and I will keepe it .  Besides sir I am well ; and have a minde  ( A thankfull one ) to taste my Lords free bounty .  I never saw a play , and would be loath  To lose my longing now .  J love this plaine Lord better than  All the brave gallant ones , that ere I dream't on .  The Prologue call you this my Lord ?  In truth she handles him handsomely .  Yes , and such wives are worthy to be lik'd ,  For giving good example .  It seemes the husbands  In the Antipodes bring portions , and  The wives make Joinctures .  And wives , when they are old , and past child-bearing ,  Allow their youthfull husbands other women .  That I like well . Why should not our old men ,  Love their young wives as well ?  Good Antipodian counsell .  Alasse , will no body beg pardon for  The poore old boyes ?  Extempore call you him ? he 's a dogged fellow  To the three poore old things there , fie upon him .  Well done sonne Peregrine , he 's in 's wits I hope .  And trust me , t was well done too of Extempore  To let the poore old children loose . And now  I looke well on him he 's a proper man .  Do's not his Lady love him , sweet my Lord ?  But we have no such lawes with us .  No ; not so much  In this case , where the man and wife doe lye  With their inferiour servants ; But in the other ,  Where the old Citizen would arrest the gallant  That tooke his wares and would not lye with 's wife ,  There it seemes reasonable , very reasonable .  Mak 't your owne case , you are an old man ,  I love a gentleman , you give him rich presents ,  To get me a child ( because you cannot ) must not  We looke to have our bargaine ?  What 's he ?  Goes Law so torne , and Poetry so brave ?  Wares does he say ?  Doe Aldermen  Love Poetry in Antipodea London .  Can Aldermen want wit and money too ?  That 's wonderfull .  Why speaks your Poet so demurely ?  Oh I remember ,  The Doctor said Poets were all Puritans  In the Antipodes : But where 's the Doctor ?  And where 's your sonne my Ioylesse ?  The more beast she .  The Lawyer speaks the Poets part .  What a poore honest Lawyer 's this ?  Still  An honest Lawyer , and tho poore , no marvaile .  What hard hearted fellow  Could beat so spruce a gentleman , and a captaine .  An honest lawyer , still how he considers  The weake estate of a young Gentleman  At armes — But who comes here ? a woman .  Is it Buffe ,  Or Calfe skin troe ? she lookes as she cold beate  Out a whole Taverne garison before her  Of mill tasters call you 'em ? if her husband  Be an old jealous man now , and can please her  Lawyer reads on papers .   No better then most ancient husbands can ,  I warrant she makes her selfe good upon him .  Lady does he call her ?  Alas poore man , he will take money yet ,  Rather then blowes , and so farre he agrees  With our rich lawyers , that sometimes give blowes  And shrewd ones for their money .  Goes she to fight now ?  What 's here , what 's here ?  A Courtier , or some gallant practising  The beggars trade , who teaches him I thinke .  In what a phrase the ragged Orator  Displayes himselfe .  And how feelingly  He begges ; then as the beggers are the best  Courtiers , it seemes the Courtiers are best beggers  In the Antipodes ; how contrary in all  Are they to us ?  Belike he is some student .  Oh politique young student .  He 'l take no fee ( that 's sure enough young man )  Of beggars , I know that .  I le speake to him my selfe else to remit it .  How must I be put in ?  True Antipodians still , for as with us ,  The Gallants follow Lawyers , and the beggers them ;  The Lawyer here is follow'd by the begger ,  While the gentleman followes him .  How takes the Lawyers then the beggers money ?  And none else by their wills ?  In truth most charitable ,  But sure that money 's lost by 'th way sometimes .  Yet sweet my Lord , whom doe these beggers beg of ,  That they can get aforehand so for law ?  Who are their benefactors ?  Then they have Usurers in th' Antipodes too ?  But ours are not so charitable I feare .  Who be their Usurers ?  How finely contrary th' are still to ours .  Trust me , this same Extempore ,  ( I know not's tother name ) pleases me better  For absolute action then all the rest .  Say you so ?  He 's busie , or I de move him ,  Thinke not your selfe , nor make your selfe a beast ,  Before you are one , and when you appeare so ,  Then thanke your selfe ; your jealousie durst not trust me ,  Behinde you in the country , and since I me here ,  I le see and know , and follow th' fashion ; if  It be to cuckold you , I cannot helpe it .  Why should you wish so ? had you rather loose  Your son then please your wife ? you shew your love both waies .  What 's he a King ?  T is your sonne ,  My Ioylesse , now y' are pleas'd .  What an odde  Jeering Judge is this ?  Oh t is the flinching Gentleman that broake  With the kind citizens wife . J hope the Judge  Will make him an example .  If our young gentlemen ,  Were like those of th' Antipodes , what decay  Of trade would here bee , and how full the prisons ?  And feeling too in the Antipodes .  Han't they my Lord ?  Protest Extempore plaid the Judge ; and I  Knew him not all this while .  He is a properer man methinks  Now , than he was before : sure I shall love him .  And I warrant ,  By his Judgement speech ee'n now , he loves a woman well :  For he said , if you noted him , that he  Would satisfie the Citizens wife himselfe .  Methinks a gentlewoman might please him better .  What 's he a doing now troe ?  What subjects there are  In the Antipodes .  But where 's your daughter in Law ?  You are cosen'd .  I know not what I may be  Made by your jealousie .  And must not we  Goe to the Banquet too ?  And mine too ?  Never was such an actor as Extempore !  Me thinkes I am even light enough to doe it .  So he would catch me in his armes I car'd not .  He has done much my Lord , and may  Hold out a little .  Doe you sneap me too my Lord .  I had  No need to come hither to be sneape .  O here 's a stately show ! looke master Ioylesse :  Your daughter in law presented like a queene  Unto your sonne , I warrant now he 'l love her .  Yes , yes , and mistris Blaze is made  The mother of her maides , if she have any :  Perhaps the Antipodian Court has none .  See , see , with what a Majesty he receives 'hem .  See my Lord now is acting by himselfe .  But t is the reall knowledge of the woman  ( Carnall I think you meane ) that carries it .  Nay right or wrong , I could even wish  If he were not my husbands son , the Doctor  Had made my selfe his Recipe , to be the meanes  Of such a Cure .  Perhaps that course might cure your madnes too ,  Of jealousy , and set all right on all sides .  Sure , if I could but make him such a foole ,  He would forgo his madnes , and be brought  To christian Sence againe .  Besides , the yong mans wife 's as mad as he ,  What wise worke will they make !  Then I am friends again : Even now I was not  When you sneapt me my Lord .  I doe waite  Upon your Lordship .  My Lord , your strength and violence prevaile not .  There is a Providence above my vertue ,  That guards me from the fury of your lust .  My Lord t is possible ,  That she who leaves a husband , may be bought  Out of a second friendship .  Yet then she had beene a loser .  I have not much lov'd wealth ,  But have not loath'd the sight of it , till now ,  That you have soyld it with that foule opinion  Of being the price of vertue . Though the Metall  Be pure , and innocent in it selfe ; such use  Of it is odious , indeed damnable ,  Both to the seller , and the purchaser :  Pitty it should be so abus'd . It beares  A stampe upon 't , which but to clip is treason .  T is ill us'd there , where Law the life controules ;  Worse , where t is made a salary for soules .  My Lord , you may  Glose o're and gild the vice , which you call pleasure ,  With god like attributes ; when it is , at best  A sensuality , so farre below  Dishonourable , that it is meere beastly ;  Which reason ought to abhorre ; and I detest it ,  More than your former hated offers .  Hold , stay there .  Now should I utter volumes of perswasions ;  Lay the whole world of Riches , pleasures , honours ,  Before me in full grant , that one , last word  Husband , and from your owne mouth spoke , confutes  And vilifies even all . The very name  Of husband , rightly weigh'd , and well remembred ,  Without more Law or discipline , is enough  To governe woman-kinde in due obedience ;  Master all loose affections , and remove  Those Idolls , which too much , too many love ;  And you have set before me , to beguile  Me of the faith I owe him . But , remember  You grant I have a husband ; urge no more ,  I seek his love . T is fit he loves no whore .  I pray forbeare my Lord :  I 'me past a childe , and will be made no wanton .  That is already answerd . He 's my husband .  You are old too my Lord .  Are you a Lord ?  Dare you boast honor , and be so ignoble ?  Did not you warrant me upon that pawne  ( Which can take up no mony ) your blanck honour ,  That you would cure his jealousie , which affects him  Like a sharpe sore , if I to ripen it  Would set that counterfeit face of scorne upon him ,  Onely in shew of disobedience , which  You wonne me to , upon your protestation ,  To render me unstain'd to his opinion ,  And quit me of his jealousie for ever .  this you may doe , and yet be still a Lord ;  This can I beare , and still be the same woman !  I am not troubled now , your wooing oratory ,  Your violent hands ( made stronger by your lust )  Your tempting gifts , and larger promises  Of honor and advancements were all frivolous ;  But this last way of threats , ridiculous ,  To a safe minde , that beares no guilty grudge :  My peace dwells here , while yonder sits my judge .  And in that faith I le dye .  Doe you fall backe againe ?  I hope I am so wise a childe .  That is my fathers name .  O I am happy in his sight . Deare sir .  Enter Truelocke . she kneeles .   Supposed father !  I am too happy made to thinke of wrong . 