 I hope I mov'd you not , but in faire language sir ;  Nor spoke a sillable that might offend you .  I have not us'd the word of loane , or borrowing ;  Onely some private conference I requested .  My father Striker , I am bold to call you .  I shall be with you anon , when you have tal'kd your selfe out of breath .  No sir , I wish my life might have excus'd  Hers , farre more precious : never had a man  A juster cause to mourne .  Sir , if you will not be pleas'd to heare my desires to you , let me depart without your derision .  I thanke you sir .  I cannot chuse but thanke you though in behalfe of my child .  I shall finde meanes to live without your trouble hereafter .  You may be when you please sir ; I can command the best entertainement there for your mony .  In the meane time sir , I had no mind to begge nor borrow of you , and though you will not give me leave to call you father , nor my daughter my daughter , yet I thought it might become my care to advertise you ( that have taken the care of her from me ) of a danger that will much afflict you , if it bee not  carefully prevented .  You have an adversary —  There I am w' ye sir , I am inform'd that his onely sonne is an earnest Suitor to your Daughter : ( I must not call her mine )  That there is a deepe secret love betwixt 'em ; and that they have had many private meetings : and a stolne match very likely to be made if you prevent it not .  Give me but a peece from you , and if by due examination you find it not so , I le never see your face agen till you send for me .  I am gone sir , and yet I thinke i 'me w' ye .  How now , alwaies wrangling ?  What 's the matter Land-lord ?  Land-Lady —  Mrs. Brittle-ware what 's the matter ?  Good Mr. Brittle-ware what 's the matter ?  The best wife i' the world ! and if you cannot afford her that to content her , you are a most hard-harted husband .  Come , come , I know the quarrell ; and I know you will never get a child by falling out .  Oh you must leave your jealousie Mr. Brittleware ; that 's a maine hindrance   Fye upon him , is he such a beast , to be jealous of his owne wife ? if every man were so , it would spoyle the getting of some children in a yeare .  What may they be ? he shall grant 'em .  There 's one , and will you deny her this to hinder a child getting ?  The Knight of the burning Pestle .  Well , shall I make a convenient motion for you both ?  Have you this Spring eaten any Asparagus yet ?  Of all the Plants , hearbes , rootes , or fruits that grow , it is the most provocative , operative and effective .  All your best ( especially your moderne ) Herballists conclude , that your Asparagus is the onely sweet stirrer that the  earth sends forth , beyond your wild Carrets , Corne-flag , or Gladiall . Your roots of Standergrasse , or of Satyrion boyld in Goates milke are held good ; your Clary or Horminum in divers wayes good , and Dill ( especially boyld in Oyle ) is also good : but none of these , nor Saffron boyld in wine , your Nuts of Artichoakes , Rocket , or seeds of Ash-tree ( which wee call the Kite keyes ) nor thousand such , though all are good , may stand up for perfection with Asparagus .  I have it from the opinion of most learned Doctors , rare Physitians , and one that dares call himselfe so .  Doctor Thou-Lord , you know him well enough .  But mistake not me , nor the commodity we speake of Mrs. Brittle-ware ; where would you have it ? here in our owne house ? fye ! the vertue of it is mortified , if it passe the threshold from the ground it growes on . No , you must thither , to the Garden of delight , where you may have it drest and eaten in the due kind ; and there it is so provocative , and so quicke in the hot operation , that none dare eate it , but those that carry their coolers with 'em , presently to delay , or take off the delightfull fury it fills 'em with .  Yes , yes ; the house affords you as convenient Couches to retyre to , as the garden has beds for the precious plants to  grow in : that makes the place a pallace of pleasure , and daily resorted and fill'd with Lords and Knights , and their Ladies ; Gentlemen and gallants with their Mistresses —  None other ; some to their owne costs , and some at other mens .  Nay Mrs. Brittle-ware , not so suddenly ; towards the evening will be the fittest season of the day : meane while goe in and fit your selfe for the walke , your husband and I are first for an other busines .  You shall not long long for that .  Wilt thou be an Asse now ? doe not I know how to fetch it out on her againe think'st thou ? she shall not goe , and yet be contented too .  Why thou wilt not be jealous of me now , that has laine in thy house these three yeares , wilt thou ? nor thinke me so foolish to provoke thee with an injury ; that know'st mee and my wayes so well .  Why so then ; and wil I wrong thee Iack think'st thou , ha ? no nor mistrust thee neither : for though thou art a jealous coxcomb over thy wife , and she a touchy thing under thee , yet thou and I Iacke have bin alwaies confident of each other , and have wrought friendly and closely together , as ever Subtle and his Lungs did ; and shar'd the profit betwixt us , han't we Iacke : ha ?  Yes ; and my Springe has seaz'd him upon the way : and  here I expect him instantly .  That 's his ambition Iacke ; and though you now keepe a China-shop , and deale in brittle commodities ( pots , glasses , Purslane Dishes , and more trinkets then an Antiquaries study is furnished withal ) you must not forget your old trade of Barber Surgeon , 't is that must sted us now in our new project .  We must make him one Iacke , 't is such a squab as thou never sawest ; such a lumpe , we may make what we will of him .  Well said Iacke , Springe has writ mee here his full description .  SLid hee 's come already : now Mr. Springe ?  How a gentleman ? will you abuse me ?  It was well brought up ; it appeares also that you have had some breeding , though but a Yeomans sonne .  Drawne and quarter'd ! you have a wit Sir , I find that already .  You may sir .  You may have all sir , if you quarter your foure hundred pound discreetly : but who is your uncle I pray ?  Dost thou know the uncle he speaks of ?  Well said Iack .  How ?  I protest I admire him : J never found like Craft in a Yeomans sonne before .  Well sir , we will take the speediest course for you that may be possible .  Yes , you must bleed : your fathers blood must out ,  He was but a yeoman , was he ?  His foule ranke blood of Bacon and Pease-porridge must out of you to the last dram .  I commend you that you seeke reason : it must bee done by meats and drinkes of costly price ; Muscadell caudels , jellies , and cock-broaths . You shall eate nothing but Shrimpe porridge for a fortnight ; and now and then a Phesants egge soopt with a Peacocks feather . I that must be the dyet .  Then at your going abroad , the first ayre you take shal be of the Asparagus Garden , and you shall feed plentifully of that .  No of th' Asparagus . And that with a Concoction of Goates milke , shall set you an end , and your blood as high as any Gentlemans lineally descended from the loyns of King Cadwalader .  That shewes the malignant basenesse of your fathers blood within you .  Be content sir ; here 's halfe a labour sav'd ; you shall bleed but o' one side : the Fathers side onely .  The Mother vaine shall not be prickt .  But when this is done , and your new blood infused into you , you shall most easily learne the manners and behaviour .  For which you shall have best instructions ;  You 'le runne a chargeable course in 't , that I le tell you :  And may yet if you please retaine your money ;  Crosse your mothers will and dye a Clowne .  Doe you note this skin of his here ?  He must have a bath , and that will be more charge .  Well sir , this house shall be your lodging , and this the Mr. of it , an excellent Chyrurgeon , and expert in these affaires , shall be your attendant .  Is that your man ? what does he weare a Coulter by his side ?  Thou maist make a Country gentleman in time , I see that by thy wit .  Come gentlemen , I le lead you the way .  YOu are now welcome to th' Asparagus Garden Land-lady .  That you shall , feare not .  Well , because she desires to bee private , goe in with your wife Mr. Brittleware , take a roome , call for a feast , and satisfie your wife , and bid the Mrs : of the house to provide for us .  And how doe you feele your selfe Mr. Hoyden after your bleeding , purging , and bathing , the killing of your grosse humors by your spare dyet , and your new infusion of pure blood , by your queint feeding on delicate meates and drinks ? how doe you feele your selfe ?  Well sir , if you repine at your expences now , that you want nothing but your Belly-full of Sparagus to finish my worke of a gentleman in you ; I will , if you please , in lieu of that stuffe up your paunch with Bacon and Bagge-pudding and put you  backe againe as absolute a Clowne as ever you came from plough .  You shall have your belly full .  You shall : but I must tell you , I must ha you turn away this grumbling Clowne that followes you : he is as dangerous about you , as your fathers blood was within you , to crosse and hinder your gentility .  Have you an elder brother ?  How villaine !  And so am I , he hindred halfe my worke ; seven yeares time is too little to make a gentleman of one that can suffer such a Clowne within seven mile of him .  All shall be done .  So shall you presently : now Landlady are you pleasd with your Asparagus ?  Well , wee will leave you to talke with him about it : come sir let us into the house .  How is 't ? J hope you are not wrangling now , but better pleas'd than so .  There wants nothing now , but that you learn the rules & rudiments , the principles and instructions for the carriages , congies , & complements , which we 'll quicly put into you by practice .  Right , right .  When he has his rules and principles , which must be his next study , he will remember .  Now we 'll goe ; but you forget me Mistresse .  T is well : Landlord and Landlady will you goe ?  A most gentlemanly resolution .  NOw sir have you your rules by heart ?  Repeate your Principles .  And can you observe and keepe these rules thinke you ?  I commend your confidence : now Mr. Springe , and Mr. Brittleware , play you the Complementasters before him a little , for his further instruction : Imagine them a couple of Courtiers scarcely acquainted fall to ; and looke that you congy in the new French Bum-trick ; here Landlord , take his Cloak and hat to appeare more generous .  Come meet and begin ; play but two or three bouts at most at single Rapier complement , and one or two at Back-sword and you ha done : now observe sir .  So , there 's one .  Good , there 's two .  A plaine hit that : here were three bouts well plaid .  So much for single Rapier : now for your secret wipe at Back-sword .  You have done well : now you sir .  Good .  Enough .  Yes , this is qacksword Complement : this wipes off the false praise which the first thrust on : you must bee seene in both , or you are no true garbist else .  How got you hither gentlemen ?  Peace : but how got you in , and a stranger with yee ?  But what a rogue art thou to put such a slur upon thine owne Vncle ; first to put him on for thy selfe , then you with a Counterfeit tricke to put him off o' that course , to runne desperately headlong to breake his owne necke in a match : what a Rogue art thou to use thine uncle thus ?  Which if I doe , cut my wind-pipe : what the yong rascall Touchwood is gone into France they say ?  Sir Cautious to be catch'd ! if I doe not love my daughter the better for her lucky leg stretching , I am a villaine , I am taken with such kind of roguery .  Then cut my weasond I say .  Hoo poxe , I want no money ; now look there comes Mr. Hoyden , salute these gallants .  The better for a young beginner .  Hold sir , hold , you shall have satisfaction .  Where 's the Mr. o' the house ?  You shall not need sir ; go but in till the Mr. of the house comes home , you shall have your desire .  Now for a trick to rid us of this Clowne ,  Or our trade sinks , and up our house is blowne .  By your leave gentlemen .  How comes it Father Striker , and sonne Cautious in election  That you huddle up a match here for my child ,  And I not made acquainted , as unworthy ,  Vntill the very intended marriage houre ?  T is true , I covenanted not to come at you ,  Vntill you sent for me , unlesse you found  Young Touchwood had the love of Annabell ,  You have heard he has touch'd her has he not ?  Has he not made her Touchwood too ?  Yes , & struck fire too in her tinderbox .  To you I neede not ; for you know 't already ;  But to my friend Sir Cautious , whom I honour ,  And would not see so shipwrack'd , I may speake it .  My daughter ; no you shall not put her upon me now .  She is your daughter sir : if I but call her mine ,  Or suffer her to aske me a bare blessing ,  You 'll thrust her out : no , you adopted her  In your owne name , and made a Striker of her ,  No more a Monylacks .  Goe not away sir Arnold , I must speak wi' yee .  Give me your hand o' that ; enough . Sir Arnold .  You must not have my daughter .  Vnlesse you meane to take anothers leavings .  Till she has buried first another husband ,  And he leave her a widow : I am her father ,  And claime a fathers interest in her choise ;  And I have promis'd her to one already ,  This very day , because I was not privy  To your proceedings ; and have taken here  This faire assumpsit forty peeces sir ;  You might admire how I should have 'hem otherwise .  For these I give a hundred , if you wed her .  Security in hand were good .  T will ne're the lesse be my disparagement .  Oh but the wench , the wench , is such a wench ,  Scarce two such marryed in a Diocesse ,  In twice two twelve moneths , for right and straight ones .  Amongst the Iewd .  But is here weight and number sir ?  Here I am wi' yee sir .  What think you is the matter ?  That Clowne come hither too : I feare I am trapt .  Now I am in .  What gentleman ?  I le answer for him too , & give you al the satisfaction that I can  