 HOw now Fris . is my Grand-father gone out of doore ?  Nay say not so good Fris .  I must resolve to dye first : oh .  Oh Sam , sweet Sam —  Ha , where ? where is he ; why doe you abuse me ?  Better then when I was in earthly being ,  This bosome is a heaven to me ; through death  I am arriv'd at blisse , most happily  To be so well reviv'd thou mad'st me dye .  I understand you , sweet ,  And doe before I read your strong injunction ,  Resolve to give it faithfull execution  What ere it be . I ha got courage now ,  And ( with a constant boldnesse let me tell you )  You dare not lay that on me I le not beare :  And Love , predominant o're all other passions ,  Shall beare me out in 't .  Farewell ,  For your security I am content ,  And would entreat to live in that retirement ,  Which your faire Justice , and my foule offence  Of late confin'd mee to , to weepe and sigh  My loathed life away .  In all I will obey you ,  T will but become my duty .  What to propound a husband ? honour'd sir ,  Although I rather wish to dye a Virgin ;  Yet my obedience to your grave behests  Shall sway my will : your choise shall be my liking :  But let me thus much favour begge , before  You make that choyse , that you will not destroy  The building you have rear'd ; your care and cost  Hath built me up by vertuous education ,  Vnto that heighth that I consider heaven ;  And waxe so old in that high contemplation ,  That to look downe on youthfull vanities ,  Were to be at a stand ; and to delight in 'hem ,  Were to fall backe againe ; and to be link'd  In marriage , to a man whose wilde affections  Are bent to worldly pleasures a maine perdition .  Doe you tell me of his Nephew sir ? even hee  The Knight himselfe , I hold to be too young  For a well govern'd man as the world goes .  Oh me ; and would you speak for such a man ?  Has given me here a letter ; I want but  Place fit to peruse it .  My habit and my dressing suits my fortune .  Oh , oh .  Oh .  My supposed slaine : Thus I cast from me .  And that all was but a plot 'twixt him and me , and these gentlemen : This paper may resolve you .  Which , to preserve my love , againe I de doe ,  Hoping that you forgive it in me too . 