 Why broughtst thou not mine Armes , and Pedegree  Home with thee Blaze , mine honest Heralds , Painter ?  But has he gone to the root , has he deriv'd me ,  Ex origine , ab antiquo ? has he fetch'd me  Farre enough Blaze ?  Iefrey Letoy , t was he , from whom the English  Letoy's have our descent ; and here have tooke  Such footing , that we 'll never out while France  Is France , and England England ,  And the Sea passable to transport a fashion .  My ancestors and I have beene beginners  Of all new fashions in the Court of England  From before Primo Ricardi Secundi  Untill this day .  Marke the end ,  I am without a precedent for my humour .  But is it spread , and talk'd of in the towne ?  Why there they ha' me right , let others shine  Abroad in cloth o' bodkin , my broad cloath ,  Pleases mine eye as well , my body better ,  Besides I 'm sure t is paid for ( to their envy )  I buy with ready money : and at home here  With as good meat , as much magnificence ,  As costly pleasures , and as rare delights ,  Can satisfie my appetite and senses ,  As they with all their publique shewes , and braveries .  They runne at ring , and tilt 'gainst one another ,  I and my men can play a match at football ,  Wrastle a hansome fall , and pitch the barre ,  And crack the cudgells , and a pate sometimes ,  T would doe you good to see 't .  They hunt the Deere , the Hare , the Fox , the Otter ,  Polcates , or Harlots , what they please , whilst I  And my mad Grigs , my men can runne at base ,  And breath our selves at Barly-breake , and dancing .  And now I am here i' th city , Sir , I hope  I please my selfe with more choyse home delights ,  Then most men of my ranke .  Sir , I have  For exercises , Fencing , Dancing , Vaulting ,  And for delight , Musique of all best kindes :  Stage-playes , and Masques , are nightly my pastimes .  And all within my selfe . My owne men are  My Musique , and my Actors . J keepe not  A man or boy but is of quality :  The worst can sing or play his part o' th' Violls ,  And act his part too in a Comedy ,  For which I lay my bravery on their backs ;  And where another Lord undoes his followers ,  J maintaine mine like Lords . And there 's my bravery .  Now tell me Blaze , looke these like Pedlers men ?  I tell thee ,  These lads can act the Emperors lives all over ,  And Shakespeares Chronicled histories , to boot ,  And were that Caesar , or that English Earle ,  That lov'd a Play and Player so well now living ,  I would not be out-vyed in my delights .  I love the quality of Playing I , J love a Play with all  My heart , a good one ; and a Player that is  A good one too , with all my heart : As for the Poets ,  No men love them , I thinke , and therefore  I write all my playes my selfe , and make no doubt  Some of the Court will follow  Me in that too . Let my fine Lords  Talke o' their Horse-tricks , and their Jockies , that  Can out-talke them . Let the Gallants boast  Their May-games , Play-games , and their Mistresses ,  I love a Play in my plaine cloaths , I ,  And laugh upon the Actors in their brave ones .  Ent. Quailp .   Well , well ,  Be you as ready with your grace as I  Ex. Quail .   Am for my meate , and all is well . Blaze we have rambled  From the maine poynt this while , it seems by his letter ,  My Doctor 's busie at thy house . I know who 's there ,  Beside , give him this Ring , Tell him it wants  A finger : farewell good Blaze .  TO night saiest thou my Hughball ?  I 'm not ambitious of that title Sir ,  No , the Letoy's are of Antiquity ,  Ages before the fancyes were begot ,  And shall beget still new to the worlds end .  But are you confident o' your potion doctor ?  Sleeps the young man ?  Well Sir my Actors  Are all in readinesse ; and I thinke all perfect ,  But one , that never will be perfect in a thing  He studies ; yet he makes such shifts extempore ,  ( Knowing the purpose what he is to speak to )  That he moves mirth in me 'bove all the rest .  For I am none of those Poeticke furies ,  That threats the Actors life , in a whole play ,  That addes a sillable , or takes away .  If he can frible through , and move delight  In others , I am pleas'd .  The same .  Doe , put him to 't : I use 't my selfe sometimes .  Well to the businesse .  Hast wrought the jealous Gentleman , old Ioylesse ,  To suffer his wife to see our Comedy .  And I will helpe her in 't .  Go fetch 'hem then , while I prepare my Actors .  Ex. Doc.    Within there hoe ?  1 This is my beard and haire .  2 My Lord appointed it for my part .  3 No , this is for you ; and this is yours , this grey one .  4 Where be the foyles , and Targets for the women ?  1 Here , can't you see ?  What a rude coyle is there ? But yet it pleases me .  1 You must not weare that Cloak and Hat .  2 Who told you so ? I must .  In my first Scene , and you must weare that robe .  What a noyse make those knaves ? come in one of you :  Are you the first that answers to that name ?  Why are not you ready yet ?  What I pray with your grave formality ?  Well sir , well :  There they be for you ; I must looke to all .  Trouble not you your head with my conceite ,  But minde your part Let me not see you act now ,  In your Scholasticke way , you brought to towne wi' yee ,  With see saw sacke a downe , like a Sawyer ;  Nor in a Comicke Scene , play Hercules furens ,  Tearing your throat to split the Audients eares .  And you Sir , you had got a tricke of late ,  Of holding out your bum in a set speech ;  Your fingers fibulating on your breast ,  As if your Buttons , or your Band-strings were  Helpes to your memory . Let me see you in 't  No more I charge you . No , nor you sir , in  That over-action of the legges I told you of ,  Your singles , and your doubles , Looke you — thus —  Like one o' th' dancing Masters o' the Beare-garden ;  And when you have spoke , at end of every speech ,  Not minding the reply , you turne you round  As Tumblers doe ; when betwixt every feat .  They gather wind , by firking up their breeches .  I le none of these , absurdities in my house .  But words and action married so together ,  That shall strike harmony in the eares and eyes  Of the severest , if judicious Criticks .  Goe , be ready :  But you Sir are incorrigible , and  Take licence to your selfe , to adde unto  Your parts , your owne free fancy ; and sometimes  To alter , or diminish what the writer  With care and skill compos'd : and when you are  To speake to your coactors in the Scene ,  You hold interloquutions with the Audients .  Yes in the dayes of Tarlton and Kempe ,  Before the stage was purg'd from barbarisme ,  And brought to the perfection it now shines with .  Then fooles and jesters spent their wits , because  The Poets were wise enough to save their owne  For profitabler uses . Let that passe .  Tonight , I le give thee leave to try thy wit ,  In answering my Doctor , and his Patient  He brings along with him to our Antipodes .  Leave that sir to th' event . See all be ready :  Your Musicke properties , and —  Blaze when he comes shall serve . Goe in .  Ex. Byp.    My Guests J heare are comming .  They 're welcome ,  And you in the first place sweet Mistris Ioylesse .  You weare my ring J see ; you grace me in it .  J sent it as a pledge of my affection to you :  For J before have seene you , and doe languish ,  Untill J shall enjoy your love .  Next Lady — you — J have a toy for you too .  Prettily answer'd ! I make you no stranger  Kind Mistris Blaze .  Honest Blaze ,  Prethee goe in , there is an Actor wanting .  Thou shalt say nothing .  I use small verball courtesie Mr. Ioylesse  ( You see ) but what I can in deed I le doe .  You know the purpose of your comming , and  I can but give you welcome . If your sonne  Shall receive ease in 't , be the comfort yours ,  The credit of 't my Doctors . You are sad .  Returne I pray slight not so my courtesie .  J will not  Be so dishonoured ; nor become so ill  A master of my house , to let a Lady  Leave it against her will ; and from her longing ;  J will be plaine wi'yee therefore : If your haste  Must needs post you away , you may depart ,  She shall not not till the morning for mine honour .  T is time we take our seats . So if you 'll stay .  Come sit with us , if not , you know your way .  Here we may sit , and he not see us .  This had bin well now , if you had not dreamt  Too long upon your sillables .  Ex. Prol.    Yes Lady , this was Prologue to the Play ,  As this is to our sweet ensuing pleasures .  Kisse .   You , and your Lady , you  Should ha' said Puppy .  Good ! hold up  That humour by all meanes .  Right . And old men give their young wives like licence .  Peace master Ioylesse , you are too lowd . Good still ,  Good ,  Now marke that fellow , he speakes Extempore .  Love ; yes , and lye with him , as her husband do's  With 's mayd . It is their law in the Antipodes .  Come ; you are mov'd I see ,  I 'll settle all ; But first , prevaile with you  To taste my wine and sweet meats . The Comedians  Shall pause the while . This you must not deny me .  Exit .   YEt , Mr. Ioylesse , are you pleas'd ? you see  Here 's nothing but faire play , and all above boord .  All shall be short .  Poxe o' thy jealousie .  Because I give thy wife a looke , or word  Sometimes ! What if I kisse ( thus ) I le not eate her .  And for my Actors , they shall speake , or not speake  As much , or more , or lesse , and when I please ,  It is my way of pleasure , and I le use it .  So sit : They enter .  Flourish .   A Lawyer , and his Clyent there , a Poet .  Yes , Poetry is good ware  In the Antipodes , though there be some ill payers ,  As well as here ; but Law there rights the Poets .  Better than ours doe Custards ; but the worst  Pay-masters living there ; worse than our gallants ,  Partly for want of money , partly wit .  Oh —  T is a precise tone he has got among  The sober sister-hood .  Doe not minde him .  He thinkes  The more ; the Poets in th' Antipodes ,  Are slow of tongue , but nimble with the pen .  They are all so  In th' Antipodes .  A kisse for thy conceite .  Yes ; that has taken up the newest fashion  Of the towne-militasters .  Very well acted that .  You shall see that anon —  Y' are something neare the subject .  The Beggars are the  Most absolute Courtiers in th' Antipodes .  You are deceiv'd .  Fye Master Ioylesse , y' are too fowle .  Now I protest  Sit and sit civilly , till the play be done ,  I le lock thee up else , as I am true Letoy .  The morall is , the Lawyers here prove beggers ,  And beggers only thrive by going to law .  They send it all  Up to our lawyers , to stop their mouths ,  That curse poore Clyents that are put upon 'em .  In forma Pauperis .  Usurers , Usurers .  Yes Usury goes round the world , and will doe ,  Till the generall conversion of the Jewes .  Souldiers , and Courtiers chiefly ;  And some that passe for grave and pious Church-men .  Why doe you not enter , what are you asleepe ? —  Sirrah be briefe , be not you now as long in  Telling what he saw , as he surveying .  Let him injoy his fancy .  I see th' event already , by the ayme  Letoy wispers With Barbara .   The Doctor takes , proceed you with your play ,  And let him see it in what state he pleases .  Prithee doe so ,  Good Mistres Blaze ; goe with her gentle Lady .  to Marth .   Doe as she bids you , you shall get a child by 't .  Y' are instructed .  Now what 's the matter ?  Sit , the Actors enter .  Flourish .   No t is the City Governor ,  And the chiefe Judge within their Corporation .  Yonder 's a king , doe you know him ?  Dismisse the Court , cannot you heare the prompter ?  Ha' you lost your eares , Judge ?  The King 's about to Knight him .  None in the world so loving .  No , no , take mine my Liege .  Give it him .  So is the sword of Justice for ought he knows .  Come Sirs quickly .  Ent. 5. or 6.  Courtiers .   He must not see  You yet ; I have provided otherwise  For both you in my Chamber , and from thence  Wee 'll at a window see the rest o th' Play ,  Or if you needs sir will stay here , you may .  Peace both of you , or you 'l spoyle all .  Pox o' your mumbling chops ; is your braine dry ?  Doe you pump ?  Would you could hold your peace  So long .  Blockehead .  Hoyday ! The rest will all be lost , we now give over  The play , and doe all by Extempore ,  For your sonnes good , to sooth him into 's wits .  If you 'l marre all , you may . Come nearer cocks-combe ,  Ha you forgotten ( puppy ) my instructions  Touching his subjects , and his marriage ?  So , now he 's in . Sit still , I must goe downe  And set out things in order .  Ex.    So , so , so , so , this yet may prove a cure .  And Letoy's wit cryd up triumphant hoe .  Come master Ioylesse and your wife , come downe  Quickly , your parts are next , I had almost  Forgot to send my chaplaine after them .  You Domine where are you ?  What in that shape ?  It is sir , and the Play for this time . We  Have other worke in hand .  Goe shift your coat sir , or for expedition ,  Cover it with your owne , due to your function .  Follyes , as well as vices , may be hid so :  Your vertue is the same ; dispatch , and doe  As Doctor Hughball shall direct you , go .  Now Master Ioylesse , doe you note the progresse  And the faire issue likely to insue  In your sons cure ? observe the Doctors art .  First , he has shifted your sonnes knowne disease  Of madnesse into folly ; and has wrought him  As farre short of a competent reason , as  He was of late beyond it , as a man  Infected by some fowle disease is drawne  By physicke into an Anatomy ,  Before flesh fit for health can grow to reare him ,  So is a mad-man made a foole , before  Art can take hold of him to wind him up  Into his proper Center , or the Medium  From which he flew beyond himselfe . The Doctor  Assures me now , by what he has collected  As well from learned authors as his practise ,  That his much troubled and confused braine  Will by the reall knowledge of a woman ,  Now opportunely tane , be by degrees  Setled and rectified , with the helpes beside  Of rest and dyet , which he 'le administer .  Right , right .  The better , fear 't not ,  Bab Blaze shall give her Counsel ; and the youth  Will give her royall satisfaction ,  Now , in this Kingly humour , I have a way  To cure your husbands jealousy my selfe .  That you must pardon :  Come Mr. Ioylesse . The new married paire  Are towards bed by this time ; we 'le not trouble them  But keep a house-side to our selfes . Your lodging  Is decently appointed .  By  My Lordship but I will for this one night .  See sir , the Keyes are in my hand . Y' are up ,  As I am true Letoy . Consider , Sir ,  The strict necessity that tyes you to 't ,  As you expect a cure upon your sonne —  Come Lady , see your Chamber .  Yet , yet , I prethee yield . Is it my person  That thou despisest ? See , here 's wealthy treasure ,  a table set forth , covered with treasure .   Jewells , that Cleopatra would have left  Her Marcus for .  Had stout Tarquin  Made such an offer , he had done no Rape ,  For Lucrece had consented , sav'd her owne ,  And all those lives that followed in her cause .  Wouldst have gold ?  Mammon , nor Pluto's selfe should over-bid me ,  For I l'd give all . First , let me raine a showre ,  To out-vie that which overwhelmed Danae ;  And after that another ; a full river  Shall from my chests perpetually flow  Into thy store .  Deny'st thou wealth ? wilt thou have pleasure then  Given , and ta'ne freely , without all condition ?  I le give thee such , as shall ( if not exceed )  Be at the least , comparative with those ,  Which Iupiter got the Demy-gods with ; and  Iuno was mad she mist .  Lastly .  Wilt thou have honour ! I le come closer to thee ;  ( For now the Flames of Love grow higher in me ,  And I must perish in them , or enjoy thee )  Suppose I finde by Power , or Law , or both ,  A meanes to make thee mine , by freeing  Thee from thy present husband .  This is not yet the way . You have seene Lady ,  My ardent love , which you doe seeme to slight ,  Though to my death , pretending zeale to your husband .  My person , nor my proffers are so despicable ,  But that they might ( had I not vow'd affection  Intirely to your selfe ) have met with th' embraces  Of greater persons , no lesse faire , that can  Too , ( if they please ) put on Formality ,  And talke in as divine a straine , as you .  This is not earnest , make my word but good ,  Now with a smile , I le give thee a thousand pound .  Looke o' my face — Come — prithee looke and laugh not —  Yes , laugh , and dar'st — Dimple this cheek a little ;  I le nip it else .  How can this be ? so young ? so vigorous ?  And so devoted to an old mans bed !  Yes , but of better metall :  A jealous old man too , whose disposition  Of injury to beauty , and young blood ,  Cannot but kindle fire of just revenge  In you , if you be woman , to requite  With your owne pleasure his unnaturall spight .  You cannot be worse to him than he thinkes you ,  Considering all the open scornes and jeeres  You cast upon him , to a flat defiance ;  Then the affronts I gave , to choake his anger :  And lastly your stolne absence from his chamber :  All which confirmes ( we have as good as told him )  That he 's a Cuckold , yet you trifle time ,  As 't were not worth the doing .  No : not unstain'd by your leave , if you call  Unchastity a staine . But for his yellows ,  Let me but lye with you , and let him know it ,  His jealousie is gone , all doubts are cleard ,  And for his love and good opinion ,  He shall not dare deny 't . Come ; be wise ,  And this is all : all is as good as done  To him already : let 't be so with us ;  And trust to me , my power , and your owne ,  To make all good with him — If not : Now marke ,  To be revengd for my lost hopes ( which yet  I pray thee save ) I le put thee in his hands ,  Now in his heat of fury ; and not spare  To boast thou art my Prostitute ; and thrust yee  Out of my gates , to try 't out by your selves .  She is invincible !  Come I le relate you to your husband .  she has tane all  I meane to give her sir Now sirrah , speake .  Come Ioylesse , I have pitty on thee ; Heare me .  I swear upon mine honor she is chast .  I prithee Heare me .  I try'd and tempted her for mine owne ends ,  More then for thine .  And had she yielded , I not onely had  Rejected her ( for it was ne're my purpose ,  ( Heaven I call thee to witnesse ) to commit  A sinne with her ) but layd a punishment  Upon her , greater then thou couldst inflict .  Doe you know your father Lady ?  Goe call  In my friend Truelocke ,  Sirrah , dare you foole .  When I am serious ? send in master Truelocke .  Exit Byp.    Sir , I am neither conjurer nor witch ,  But a great Fortune-teller , that you l finde ,  You are happy in a wife sir , happier — yes  Happier by a hundred thousand pound ,  Then you were yesterday —  I meane in possibilities : provided that  You use her well , and never more be jealous .  Looke you this way sir ,  When I speake to you , I le crosse your fortune else ,  As I am true Letoy .  When saw you your wives father ? answer me ?  T is possible he 's here then , doe you know him   T is but so much knee-labour lost , stand up ,  Stand up , and minde me .  know sir , that J sent for him , and for you ,  Jnstructing your friend Blaze my instrument ,  To draw you to my Doctor with your sonne ,  Your wife J knew must follow , what my end  Was in 't shall quickely be discover'd to you ,  In a few words , of your supposed father .  Yes , come master Truelocke ,  My constant friend of thirty yeares acquaintance ,  Freely declare with your best knowledge now ,  Whose childe this is .  True , master Truelocke ,  I doe release you of your vow : Now speake .  Now shall you know what mov'd me sir . I was  A thing beyond a mad-man , like your selfe ,  Jealous ; and had that strong distrust , and fancied  Such proofes unto my selfe against my wife ,  That I conceiv'd the childe was not mine owne ,  And scorn'd to father it ; yet I gave to breed her  And marry her as the daughter of this gentleman  ( Two thousand pound I guesse you had with her )  But since your match , my wife upon her death-bed ,  So clear'd her selfe of all my foule suspitions ,  ( Blest be her memory ) that J then resolv'd  By some quaint way ( for J am still Letoy )  To see and try her throughly ; and so much  To make her mine , as I should find her worthy .  And now thou art my daughter , and mine heire .  Provided still ( for I am still Letoy )  You honourably love her , and defie  The Cuckold-making fiend foule jealousie .  As J am true Letoy  Well said . J hope thy son is cur'd by this too .  Now Mistris Blaze ! here is a woman now !  J cur'd her husbands jealousie , and twenty more  Jth' Towne , by meanes I and my Doctor wrought .  Ha done , ha done .  Prithee what camst thou for ?  I told you .  Why flyest thou off , thus woman , from the subject  Thou wert upon ?  Are they up , and ready ?  T is excellent .  Go sir .  And go you daughter .  Has he knowne you friend Trulock too ?  Go , then , and possesse him ( Now , he is sensible ) how things have gone ; what Arte , what meanes , what friends have bin imploy'd in his rare cure ; and win him , by degrees , to Sense of where he is ; bring him to me ; and I have yet an entertainment for him , Of better Settle-braine , then Drunkards porridge , To set him right . As I am true Letoy , I have one Toy left . Go , and go you , why stayst thou ?  Exe.  Ioy.    But never as she is .  You 'le know anon .  Goe with thy flesh to Turn-bull shambles ? Hoe  Within there .  The musicke , songs ,  And dance I gave command for , are they ready ?  Prithee say no more , but see upon my signall given , they act as well as I design'd .  I know no flatterer in my house but this ,  But for his custome I must beare with him .  'Sprecious they come already . Now beginne .  Againe you are welcome sir and welcome all .  This is Musick , Sir , you are welcome ; and I give full power Unto your father , and my daughter here , your mother to make you welcome .  Ioylesse whispers Peregrine .   Fetch him you on againe then : pray are you Letoy or I ?  I care not sir , I le have it to delay your cure a while , that he recover soundly . Come sit again , again you are most welcome .  Peace woman , marke what they doe : but but by the way , conceive me this , but shew sir , and devise .  How goes he backe againe , now doctor ? sheugh .  See Harmony approaches , leading on ,  Gainst Discords factions feare great deities ;  Mercury , Cupid , Bacchus , and Apollo .  Wit against Folly , Love against Jealousie ,  Wine against Melancholly , and gainst Madnesse , Health .  Observe the matter and the Method .  And how upon the approach of Harmony ,  Discord and her disorders are confounded .  Note there how Discord cheares up her disorders ,  To mingle in defiance with the Vertues :  But soone they vanish ; and the mansion quit  Ex Discord .   Unto the Gods of health , love , wine and wit ,  Who triumph in their habitation new ,  Which they have taken , and assigne to you ;  In which they now salute you — Bids you bee  Salute Exe.    Of cheare ; and for it , layes the charge on me .  And unto me y' are welcome , welcome all .  Meat , wine , and mirth shall flow , and what I see ,  Yet wanting in your cure , supplied shall be .  We will want nothing for you that may please ,  Though we dive for it toth ' Antipodes . 