 Your case is cleare , I understand it fully ,  And need no more instructions , this shall serve ,  To firke your Adversary from Court to Court ,  If he stand out upon rebellious Legges ,  But till Octabis Michaelis next .  I le bring him on submissive knees .  Let me see ,  This is your bill of Parcells .  Delivered too , and for the use of the right worshipfull  Mr. Alderman Humblebee , as followeth — Imprimis —  Reads .   Umh , I cannot read your hand ; your Character  Is bad , and your Orthography much worse .  Read it your selfe pray .  T is very reasonable .  So , now it rises .  There was a curious Peece .  Here 's a summe towards indeed ! a thousand verses ?  Well sir , on .  Here 's a large summe in all , for which I le try ,  His strength in law , till he peccavi cry ,  When I shall sing , for all his present bignesse ,  Iamque opus exegi quod nec Iovis Ira , nec ignis .  Will you abuse me therefore ?  I take no fees double nor single I .  Retaine your money , you retaine not me else .  Away , away , you 'll hinder other Clyents .  Not so much as a Poesie for her thimble ,  For feare I spoyle your cause ,  Y' are welcome Captaine .  In your two causes I have done my best .  Truely sir ,  Our best course is not to proceed to triall .  Yes , more by composition , than the Court  Can lawfully adjudge you , as I have labour'd .  And sir , my course is , where I can compound  A difference , I le not tosse nor bandy it  Into the hazzard of a judgement .  First you understand  Your severall actions , and your adversaries ,  The first a Battery against a Coach-man ,  That beate you sorely .  It is up already , sir ,  If you can be advis'd , observe I pray ,  Your other actions 'gainst your feathermaker ,  And that of trespasse for th' incessant trouble  He puts you to by importunate requests ,  To pay him no money , but take longer day .  Very easily thus ,  The Coachman 's poore , and scarce his twelvemoneths wages  Tho 't be five markes a yeare will satisfie .  So you owe the other  A debt of twenty pound , the Coachman now  Shall for your satisfaction , beat you out  Of debt .  No sir he shall beate  For you your feather man till he take his money .  Leave it to me then ,  It shall be by posterity repeaten  That souldiers ought not to be dund or beaten ,  Away and keepe your money .  Cry mercy Lady .  Thus farre I have proceeded in your cause  i th' Marshalls court .  Pray observe  The passages of my proceedings ; and  The pro's and contras in the windings , workings  And carriage of the cause .  Well , it is ; and heer 's your order .  By no meanes gentle Lady .  Pardon me .  Hold , hold , I take it .  Give me my fee , I cannot heare you else .  You understand me sir , your cause is to be  Pleaded to day , or you are quite orethrowne in 't .  The Judge by this tyme is about to sit .  Keepe fast your money , and forgoe your wit .  Exit .  