 Alas , I bring  Sorrow too much with me to fill one house ,  In the sad number of my family .  You speak well of him :  Yet I may feare , my sonnes long growne disease  Is such he hath not met with .  My sonne 's disease  Growes not that way .  How fell she mad ?  For painting , or new fashions .  I cannot thinke for the Philosophers stone .  Was that so hard to find , if she desir'd it .  T was he was mad then .  Would all were well .  T is much .  We doe you say , were you one of his Patients .  But pray , has he the art  To cure a husbands Iealousie ?  But still you name no Party , pray how long ,  Good master Blaze , has this so famous doctor  Whom you so well set out , beene a professor ?  For the most part  It is onely inclining still to worse ,  As he growes more in dayes ; by all the best  Conjectures we have met with in the countrey ,  T is found a most deepe melancholy .  Of five and twenty Sir .  Never ,  Not shee unto her grave ; nor I , till then ,  Knew what a sadnesse meant ; though since , I have  In my sonnes sad condition , and some crosses  In my late marriage , which at further time  I may acquaint you with .  Diverse yeares since ; for we had hope a wife  Might have restrain'd his travelling thoughts , and so  Have beene a meanes to cure him ; but it fail'd us .  You have now , Sir , found the question , which I thinke  Will lead you to the ground of his distemper .  In tender yeares he alwayes lov'd to read  Reports of travailes , and of voyages ;  And when young boyes , like him , would tire themselves  With sports , and pastimes , and restore their spirits  Againe by meate and sleepe ; he would whole dayes  And nights ( sometimes by stealth ) be on such bookes  As might convey his fancy round the world .  When he grew up towards twenty ,  His minde was all on fire to be abroad ;  Nothing but travaile still was all his aime ;  There was no voyage or forraine expedition  Be said to be in hand , but he made sute  To be made one in it His mother and  My selfe oppos'd him still in all , and strongly  Against his will , still held him in ; and wonne  Him into marriage ; hoping that would call  In his extravagant thoughts , but all prevail'd not ,  Nor stayd him ( though at home ) from travailing  So farre beyond himselfe , that now too late ,  I wish he had gone abroad to meet his fate .  Yet there 's more : his wife Sir .  Alas the danger is they will have none ,  He takes no joy in her ; and she no comfort  In him : for though they have bin three yeeres wed ,  They are yet ignorant of the marriage bed ,  Indeed she 's full of passion , which she utters  By the effects , as diversly , as severall  Objects reflect upon her wandring fancy ,  Sometimes in extream weepings , and anon  In vehement laughter ; now in sullen silence ,  And presently in loudest exclamations .  Some other time for her .  But my sonne , my sonne sir ?  How does my sonne ?  His fits upon him ?  Into your chamber .  I doe not like your liking of mens persons .  And let no looser words , or wandring looke  Bewray an intimation of the slight  Regard you beare your husband , lest I send you  Upon a further pilgrimage , than he  Feignes to convay my sonne .  You would have some of 't would you , to have hope  T' out-live your husband by 't .  Would I had given you halfe my land 't were done .  You may finde that  Without inquiry : Cease your idle questions .  You 'l hold your peace ,  I would they could else .  Into your Chamber , get you in I charge you .  Then you conclude here are .  Not yet !  Monstrous .  She shall not .  I must be Sir .  He has not drunke so deepe a draught this twelvmonth .  Alasse I feare .  See he beginnes to sink .  His Ring ! what Ring ? how came she by 't ?  He courts her .  I say restore the Ring , and backe with me .  To the Lord that sent it .  My Lord I would entreat we may returne ;  I feare my wife 's not well .  The aire of London  Hath tainted her obedience already :  And should the Play but touch the vices of it ,  She 'd learne and practise 'hem . Let me beseech  Your Lord ships reacceptance of the un -  Merited favour that she weares here , and  Your leave for our departure .  Indeed t is a high poynt of honour in  A Lord to keepe a private Gentlemans wife  From him .  Here are we fallen through the Doctors fingers .  Into the Lords hands . Fate deliver us .  Ex. omnes .   Kissing indeed is Prologue to a Play ,  Compos'd by th' Divell , and acted by the Children  Of his blacke Revells , may hell take yee for 't .  Doe you like it ?  Very well observ'd .  Would you have it so ?  Here 's goodly stuffe ! Shee 's in the Antipodes too .  I am abus'd on that side too .  If you lose yours the while , where 's my advantage ?  She 'll fall in love with the Actor , and undoe me .  Doe you approve of such a law ?  Do's it ?  Give me leave  Now to be gone my Lord , though I leave her  Behinde me ; shee is mad , and not my wife ,  And I may leave her .  I must not live here alwaies , that 's my comfort .  Exit .   But it is late , and these long intermissions  By banqueting and Courtship twixt the Acts  Will keep backe the Catastrophe of your play ,  Vntill the morning light .  And then in midst of Scenes  You interrupt your Actors ; and tye them  To lengthen time in silence , while you hold  Discourse , by th'by .  Soe , so , his banquet workes with him .  Will you but give the Actors leave to speake ,  They may have done the sooner ?  A sweet occasion !  T is very good , the play begins to please me .  You will not sure , will you turne Actor too ?  Pray doe , be put in for a share amongst em ?  The Players will quickly  Shew you , if you performe your part ; perhaps  They may want one to act the whore amongest 'em .  My Lord ,  She is too faire it seemes in your opinion ,  For me , therefore if you can finde it lawfull ,  Keepe her ; I will be gone .  Nay I ha' done —  Whistles Fortune my foe .   What of him ?  You were best beg him of his Lord .  Diana yet be wise , beare not the name  Of sober chastity to play the beast in .  I now could wish my sonne had beene as farre  In the Antipodes as he thinkes himselfe ,  Ere I had runne this hazzard .  Nothing , nothing . —  Here 's a City  Enter Peregine and Doctor .   Like to be well govern'd then . —  Would you were pleas'd ,  To cease your huswifry in spinning out  The Play at length thus .  What 's that to you my Lady ?   Within .  Dismisse the Court .  What over-sight  Was there ?  Sure , sure , you shall not , shall you ?  How dare you talke so ?  Byplay kneeles , and kisses Peregrines hand .   Pritheee Diana , yet le ts slip away  Now while he 's busie .  Gone home I warrant you with Mistris Blaze .  Let them be our example .  Y' are an impudent whore ,  Was ever man betray'd thus into torment ?  Ex.    You were best to flye out of the window to him .  I could finde in my heart to Quoit thee at him .  Ha , ha , ha .  I hope his hotter zeale to 's actors  Will drive out my wives love-heat .  A queene ?  How , how ?  Heaven grant me patience ,  And send us to my Country home againe .  Sure your Lordship  Meanes not to make your house our prison .  I both wait , and watch ,  Never was man so master'd by his match .  Ex. omn.    DIana ! ho ! where are you ? she is lost .  Here is no further passage . All 's made fast .  This was the Bawdy way , by which she scap'd  My narrow watching . Have you privy posternes  Behind the hangings in your strangers Chambers ?  She 's lost from me , for ever . Why then seek I ?  O my dull eyes , to let her slip so from yee ,  To let her have her lustfull will upon me !  Is this the Hospitality of Lords ?  Why , rather , if he did intend my shame ,  And her dishonour , did he not betray me  From her out of his house , to travaile in  The bare suspition of their filthinesse ;  But hold me a nose-witnesse to its ranknesse ?  No : This is sure the Lordlier way ; and makes  The act more glorious in my sufferings . O —  May my hot curses on their melting pleasures ,  Cement them so together in their lust ,  That they may never part , but grow one monster .  Is 't gone  So farre doe you thinke ?  For getting me  A child ? why I am none of his great Lordships tenants ,  Nor of his followers , to keepe his Bastards .  Pray stay a little .  Tell him I take it well ; and thanke him .  I did before despaire of Children I .  But I le goe wi'yee , and thanke him .  But tell me first : were you their Bawd that speak this ?  Nothing I ,  But play with 't . Did you see the passages  Of things ? I aske , were you their Bawd ?  Lords actions all are lawfull .  And how ? and how ?  Nay , pray thee out with 't .  To bed ! well on .  Who dost thou speake of ?  Goe bring me to 'hem then . Bawd will you goe ?  Your Lords Bawd , and my wives .  Brave , brave , and monstrous !  Where is my wife ?  J 'me most insufferably abus'd .  Jf fire , or water , poyson , cord , or steele ,  Or any meanes be found to do it : I le doe it ;  Not to please her , but rid me of my torment .  Ex. Joy , and Byp.    No ,  I le meet her with more joy then I receiv'd  Upon our marriage-day . My better soule .  Let me againe embrace thee .  O my Lord ,  My Lord , you have cur'd my jealousie , I thanke you ;  And more , your man for the discovery ;  But most the constant meanes , my vertuous wife ,  Your medicine my sweet Lord .  Oh my deare , deare Diana .  Much good doe thee .  Stay , stay , stay , stay ;  Why may not this be then a counterfeit action ,  Or a false mist to blinde me with more error ?  The ill I fear'd may have beene done before ,  And all this but deceit to dawbe it ore .  Shugh , give me leave .  Honor ! in oath of glasse !  That 's easily beleev'd .  But how can this appeare ?  Can he be here ?  So , so , now he 's mad .  Must it come that way .  Mad , mad , he 's mad ,  Would we were quickly out on 's fingers yet .  He came for London foure dayes before us .  How have you beene conceald , and this house ?  Here 's mystery in this .  My Lord , t is not her birth and fortune , which  Do joyntly claime a priviledge to live  Above my reach of jealousie , shall restraine  That passion in me , but her well tried vertue :  Jn the true faith of which J am confirmd ,  And throughly cur'd .  Full of content and joy .  Indeed it is so sonne . 