 As I liue Mistris Trainewell , all that ere he had o' me was but a kisse . But I mun tell yee , I wish'd it a thoosund , thoosand till him .  Feath but that bare eance nother , and your seln were by too . Trow yee that I de not tell yee and t were maer . By my conscience Mrs. Trainewell I lee not .  Vary true , Mine Vncle was than by too . And hee brought sir Phillip to see his Orchard . And what did hee than doe , trow you , but tuke me thus by th' haund , and thus hee kust mee ; hee sed I were a deaft Lasse : but ther he feind . But for my life I could not but thinke , he war the likest man that I had seene with mine eyne ; and could not devaise the thing I had , might be vnbeggen by him . Then by and by as we walkd , he askd mine Vncle , gin hee would giue him me to make a Lady till him . And by my trouth Mistris Trainwell , I lee not , I blush'd and luk'd vpon him as I would feine a hed it so : Mine Vncle said yes , and sir Phillip shuke my haund , and gude feath my heart ioyd at it . God gin the Priest had beene by . But I thought all sure enough ; and would not ha' sold my part for the Spanish Ladies Ioincture . But streight anon mine Vncle and he fell on other talke , of Lords and Ladies , and many foud like things , I minded not : For I is weell sure , this keept me waking ere since . And God pardon mee what I misthought euery houre i' th' night .  I wot not what he meant . But I is weell sure , I le nere bee sure to ony Man but hee . And if hee loue mee not as weell , God pardon him . For I meant him none ill .  Will hee not come Mrs. Trainewell ?  I le doe ought you bid me God gin I saw him eance .  Mary , God sheild Mrs. Trainewell . Is hee geane ? Must I not see him ?  Heauen blisse vs , and giue vs leaue to dee first . Can he be so vnkaind , to scorne me so , Woe is me .  O Wee ll a neare Mistris Trainewell ! Sir Phillip is the likest man that ere you saw dayes o' your life . This Lozell dow not . Nor would he send him . So trim a Man cannot haue like bad purpose .  Yea feath , and scorne me too sir . Ill betide them . But and you doe me helpe , and ma' sir Phillip loue me , God reward you .  Gude ●eath sir , I may not say how well I loue him : But were I one of neere ●a mickle , heest eene haue all . And yet he loues me not .  Now Gods benison light o'yee for it .  Lo yee lo yee , the worst like man to Sir Phillip yee saw in all your dayes .  And I vndone than .  Nor will I , feare it not . Nor any man that sayes hee loues me . For alas ! I was too lately scorn'd .  Truth in swearing , lesse in promising .  Nor ne man for your sake .  I say so too sir . What wa st I pray .  Tell that no further ; for wee are all too gentle lessen men were lesse cruell .  You shall heare me sing first by your leaue .  Pray sir , are you sir Phillip ?  But you are none of my Sparrow . Your mouth 's not wide enough for your words .  His words would soften Adamantine eares . And lookes would melt a Marble heart to teares . O Wea is me !  What 〈◊〉 I doe them ? Shall I euer get him by singing trou yee ? Introth I would neuer but sing , if I thought that were the gainest way .  It must bee of my Loue than , my Sparrow as I told you . And thus it goes .  A bonny bonny Bird I had  A bird that was my Marroe :  A bird whose pastime made me glad ,  And Phillip t was my Sparrow .  A pretty play-fere : Chirp it would ,  And hop , and fly to fist ,  Keepe cut , as ● were a Vsurers Gold ,  And bill me when I list .  Phillip , Phillip , Phillip it cryes  But hee is fled and my loy dyes .  But were my Phillip comd a gaine ,  I would not change my Loue  For Iuno's bird with gawdy traine ,  Nor yet for Venus Doue .  Nay , would my Phillip come againe ,  I would not change my state ,  For his great Name sakes wealth of Spaine ,  To be anothers Mate .  Phillip Phillip , &c.   No no , you cannot be the Man . I know him right wee l by you sir , as wily as you be . Gin you had all his trim geere vpon you , and all his sweets about you , yet I should not bee so fond to mistake a Ienny How let for a Tassell Gentle . Ah , ah , ha .  Feath , but eene eane . That her is not Sir Phillip . For thus would hee doe . Thus would hee kisse his hand ; and thus ta' me by mine . Thus would hee looke , and set his eye on mine : And giue mee leaue to see my selfe in 's eyes . T was the  best Glasse introth that ere I saw . I nere looke weell fine . Nor ere shall i me sure , vntill I see me there againe .  But hee is geaue , alas hee 's geane , and all too late I sorow .  For I shall neuer bee well againe , till yesterday be to marow .  God you good Euen sir . —  I wo'not goe to 't , nor I man not goe to 't ,  For loue , nor yet for see :  For I am a Mayd , and will be a Mayd ,  And a good one till I dye .  Yet mine intent , I could repent , for ●ne mane company .  But you are not he Sir . If you be , you are wondrously chang'd . I am sure his faults were not written on his forehead . God pardon him .  Mum to●t Mun toot , Muntara rara Muntara ra ra rarie ,  And euer I sigh and cray alack for Phillips loue I die .  iust so did our Deyry Mayd at home serue my Lady Fidledees Batler . And there I learnt it . But when shee had so done what did shee than doe ? Bestow'd a penyworth of Vnguentum Album , and it made him whole presently . Good Mrs.  Traynwell send to your Pothecary for some : 't will make him wee ● e'now now .  I know I am not weell too . But I le ha' no Doctor but Sir Phillip .  But not with him by my faith , and your leaue , in 't wee be married . Prithee Beauis gar him wash his face hee 'll scare some bodies Barnes else . —  Sir I beseech your worship , deale not so seuerely with mee .  Indeed sir , the Captaine inform'd me of her ; and said he would be here ready to accuse her . Good sir .  Good your worship , hold your hand . For my poore familie sake .  Sir 't is the first time that euer I offended in this kind . I pray your worship be of a better mind towards me .  Ah , ha , ha .  Ah , ha , ha , ha —  T is a long whayle ●ine I hear● ony .  He is wed already Sir . Another wife would gar him be put downe at gallowes : an ● I vvould not bee sh●e for all the wordly good that ere I saw with 〈…〉 . And o' my conscience I le be none of his 〈…〉   Marry ▪ shall I tell you what I 'le say sir ? That deserues hanging worse then tother matter , you would poyson his vvife by your Art , wod yee ? and make your gowne there the Hangmans ●ee the second time ? It lookes as it had beene once his already ; and you like such a Doctor I must tell yee , by your leaue . God blesse me fro thee . Mrs. Traynwell where are you ?  O Mrs. Traynwell , for deare Charities sake ha' me soone  fro' this Man : for I 'le nere take ony thing at him . Hee talkes of poysoning .  Pray put vp your Pipes sir . I like not your Musicke : troth nor his countenance nather . Sweet Mrs. Traynwell gar me be shut on him . Now all the joyes of Immortality light o' yee sir .  Deare sir , keepe further fro' him .  In troth he breathes to neare him .  But one word call yee this ?  O right weell sir .  I is sure , I le nener be mine owne else .  Any whither but to bed before wee be married .  And thanke you too sir . And ta' mee but fro' this ill looking Doctor ; for I shall be weell with you sir .  Heauen blisse the houre you speake in , and all Saints be witnesses .  Mistris , I will goe no further in this businesse , then you haue limited me in your directions : 't will be revenge enough for my disgrace to make him see his error .  Mistris , I will not watch more truly at Midnight , then I will pray for you for this Discouery . I will instantly call my priuy-search , guard , and catch a bird , of Iustice in the lime-twigs of his owne Warrant . —  An English Spaniard sir , And therefore the verier  knaue : as will bee prou'd I doubt not , to his shame , and my renowne in the Common wealth . By your Worships leaue .  Spanish newes sir . Wil t please your Worship to examine the vertue of my Warrant , and then these Persons accordingly ?  And please your worship , the best Vniuersity for this purpose will be Bridewell . I am acquainted with the best Tutors there , Master Cleanewhip , Master Dri-lash , and diuers others .  No such matter sir . But in my right mind , and Midlesex feare it not .  Oh , hee 's rarely vext .  O haue I found you Mistris ? Sir this is the Gentlewoman I brought before your worship to day .  As I am in my right mind and Midlesex , it is she sir . I had not matter enough then to lay to her charge ; for which I thanke your worship I kist Newgate . But now I haue sir ; she has left a Child vpon our Parish , I am sure got by an vnknowne father ; and has beene a loose Liuer , both at Duke Humfreyes , and most of the winkd it houses about the Towne these foure yeares : which I can sufficiently proue . 