 To dis-obey a father , is a crime  In any sonne unpardonable . Is this rule  So generall that it can beare noe exception ?  Or is a fathers power so illimitable ,  As to command his sonnes affections ?  And so controule the Conquerour of all men  Even Love himselfe ? no : he , that enterprizes  So great a worke , forgets he is a man ;  And must in that forget he is a father ,  And so if he forgoe his nature , I  By the same Law may leave my Piety .  But stay , I would not lose my selfe in following  This wild conceit   I was but casting how to find the way  Unto my selfe . Can you direct me gentlemen ?  Ha you had conference with him ? ha yee ? speake .  Ha you wonne ought upon him to my advantage ?  Pray doe not trifle with me ; tell me briefly .  A most uncharitable and unnaturall sentence .  The Divell speakes it in thee ,  And with this spell I must Conjure him out .  Hee 's too desperate ,  To urge me to an act of such injustice .  Can her faire love , to whom my faith is given ,  Be answered with so loud an injury ?  Or can my faith so broken yield a sound  Lesse terrible than thunder , to affright  All love and constancy out of the breast  Of every Virgin that shall heare the breach  Of my firme faith ?  I have no further power to doe an out-rage  Against that Family to whome my heart  Is link'd , then to rip out this troubled heart  The onely ominous cause , indeed , of all .  My over passionate fathers cruelty ; and that  ( If I must needs doe an injurious Office )  Alone , shall be my act to calme his fury .  The Ballet taught you that .  And me your pardon .  How fares my love ?  My father knowes as much , and that 's the cause  Of my adventuring hither to instruct you  In a strange practice ; here it is in writing ,  A paper .   'T is such a secret that I durst not trust  My tongue with the conveyance of 't ; nor have I  The confidence to heare it read : take it ,  And in my absence joyne your best advises ,  To give it life and action ; 't is rule  Which ( though both hard and grievous to pursue )  Is all that can our hopes in love renew .  Not untill my departure gentle Friswood .  Consider sweet our love is Feaver sick ,  Even desperately to death ;  And nothing but a desperate remedy  Is left us : for our bodily health , what sowre  Unsavory loathsome medicines we will take  But to remove an Ague ?  What sharpe incisions , searings , and cruell Corsives  Are daily suffer'd , and what limbes dissever'd  To keepe a Gangreene from the vitall parts ,  That a dismembred body yet may live !  We in like case must to preserve our love ,  ( If we dare say we love ) adventure life ,  Fame , Honour , which are all but Loves attendants  To maintaine it .  Oh you have made me happy .  Thus let us breath that till we meete againe .  We leave for truce at raysing of the siege ,  Our interchanged hearts each others pledge .  Farewell .  It is too true , unlesse you please in mercy  To pardon , and preserve me from the rigour  Of Justice , and the sharper censure  That I shall suffer in all good opinion .  I hope you shall heare well of me .  Pray blesse me sir .  The Island of two Acres here , more profitable than twice two thousand in the Fens , till the drainers have done there .  Shee spake of great Courtiers and Ladyes that are to come .  And I assure you , as ignoble and vicious doe pester it too much ; and these that respect profit meerely have not the wit , and lesse the vertue to distinguish betwixt the best and the worst , but by their purses .  I le pledge it .  What 's he to whom wee seeke ?  Yet you say he is an admirer and hunter after the sight of beauty .  Well , how your plot may hold to my purpose I cannot see : he is the unlikeliest man to have a wench put upon that you can mention .  O here come the great guests .  Ee'n now he had none .  It is your modesty , not feare that keeps you at distance I imagine .  You dare not sir blaspheme the vertuous use  Of sacred Poetry , nor the fame traduce  Of Poets , who not alone immortall be ,  But can give others immortality .  Poets that can men into stars translate ,  And hurle men downe under the feete of Fate :  T was not Achilles sword , but Homers pen ,  That made brave Hector dye the best of men :  And if that powerfull Homer likewise wou'd ,  Hellen had beene a hagge , and Troy had stood .  Poets they are the life and death of things ,  Queens give them honour , for the greatest Kings  Have bin their subjects .  Think you so sir ?  A death deserving scandall .  Thy malice , and thy ignorance  Have doom'd thee .  I le find a time to right you , or my selfe .  Peace , let 's see a little more .  We found faire entrance into the house .  If your wife be the gentlewoman o' the house sir , shee 's now gone forth in one o' the new Hand-litters : what call yee it , a Sedan .  Downe towards the Strand I tell you , in a new Litter , with the number one and twenty in the breech on 't .  Can you say this gentleman was a Clowne within this fortnight ?  Had it beene o' both sides , it had beene miraculous .  Yes , t is my friend .  How sir ?  You doe not know him sure .  There 's another for you sir .  I take her not with all faults , but without any least blemish .  T is mine owne hand by which I instructed her by a dissembled way , to wound her honour . 