 Though I were absent at the Ceremony , I now bring my wishes of much ioy .  Master Bulfinch , I reioyce to meet you here directly . Looke you sir . Doe you know this young Gentleman ?  Haue you forgot sir Hercules ?  T is so directly Master Bulfinch , and I haue brought him to Towne — I vnderstand my Neece is in your house , my Lady Bride . Is shee employd in your Chamber ?  How ! not here ? Sirah what did you tell me ?  How was shee accompanied ?  Knauery , Villany and Theiuery ! ● smell it ranke . Shee 's stolne , shee s gone directly .  If shee bee in the land I will recouer her , I hope I shall find as much right in Law , as a Broaker or a Ioyner .  Oh Mistris Fitchow , my Neece , my Neece .  Shee 's is lost , shee 's stolne , and all my ioy is gone . My Neece my Constance .  Promis'd you ? I am abus'd . I doe suspect you accessaries . Sir I haue purpos'd and promis'd her to this Gentleman . And here I charge you to restore her me .  Sir Phillip , you are courteous and noble : as you will continue so in opinion of honest men , let me haue right .  Sir I must take my leaue , this is no time to trouble you .  Bu●● . Madame , Madame .  you must allow of reasonable things .  The Womans voyce had much in 't like my Neece .  I am of your mind Master Bulfinch . And trust me I am glad my Neece was drawne into the witty conceit . For which with a new Gowne he thanke her .  My Neece might not withstanding her lost loue haue tane me home in her Coach .  It should be so . I like the custome well .  Therefore no Coach , no Company noble Knight . Pursue your home occasions , and God gi'yee ioy .  Not a word more of it directly .  But you neuer saw her face .  Good Master Water Widgine , this is no time of night to diue into busines of this depth . It is Nestling time I take it . How thinke you Master Bulfinch .  Therefore what your sister hath promis'd you , let her performe if shee can ; meane time this Gentleman is my choyse : come Master Nonsense , you haue had a long time of silence . Master Bulfinch .  Come your wayes huswife . No more of your whynings , and counterfet tricks . If this Gentleman be not worthy of your loue , I am not worthy to be your Vncle , directly .  Accept of him , you accept of me . if you refuse him you deny me directly .  If you will ioyne hands and faith with him , Here 's your portion , there 's your ioincture ; if not , your way lies before you , pack directly .  What would you haue me doe ? Or how in your discretion would you councell me ?  Now the g●gs vp .  Oh . No moreouers I beseech you , not more of her at this time . I vnderstand your purpose already . I doe directly . Therefore speedily take what course , and vse what meanes shall in your discretion be thought fit . I will subcribe , I will directly subscribe to your discretion . My wife when shee went out of the worlde left me as great a care behind her in the charge she gaue me with this Woman , this quick sighted Guide of my house , a blind one were better .  Here 's wise worke ! direct lunacy and Ideotisme . Blesse my house from the Ward Masters Informers ,  And put her to 't sir , and out of this humor . I le add the tother fiue hundred to her portion , and you bring her about handsomely . O when I was a Batchelor ! I thinke I can doe somewhat yet in my old dayes . But when I was a Batchelor , how I could haue handled this geere .  I doe beleeue you sir suficiently good Master Nonsense . No more of your impertinent speeches . But follow her , and put her to 't I say , to 't directly . Take her into the Orchard t was there shee fell in loue they say It may bee the place is O neno ● .  Where you please ; and vse vvhose helpe you please : shee is your ovvne ; dispose of her freely , as I vvill of what is 〈…〉 course of life directly . Let me see . Shee is lost , past recouery . Say I should marry , I might yet haue an 〈…〉 mine ovvne .  There might rise a fearefull question .  Shee 's falling into a tedious Lecture .  No more I beseech you .  I pray shut vp that point , I will not marry . No directly I will not , though the truth is my purpose : was to haue cast my selfe and fortune wholly vpon you , if it might houe seem'd well in your discretion , vmh vmh .  Not a step further , this way by your leaue . I thinke I haue pusseld her discretion .  Say you nothing , ●er I doe know nothing , nor I will know nothing more of this matter directly : For if euer I marry , let me suffer all that the-Law prouides for Periury ; let me bee cropt and slitt worse then a French Curtall , or a parliamentall delinquent for blaspheming the blood royall . No , I wil now bestow my wealth in Monumentall good deedes , and charitable vses in my life time , to bee talkd well on when I am dead .  Shee would haue me doe no good with that I haue neither . Let mee consider . The most I haue to say directly hath not beene very well gotten . Were it not a point of good conscience , to spend that prodigally , and saue a 〈…〉 And that which I haue got well and honestly , hath beene with much care and trauell ; were it not then a point of equity to my selfe , to spend that with ease and pleasure ? T is done directly , what I haue is mine owne ; and I will be merry with it . Within there ho .  Sirah . Take there twenty peeces . B stow it all presently in choycest meates , and richest Wines for my Supper . This one nights Supper directly . What I haue is mine owne : and I will be merry with it .  Six brace of Partriches , and sixe Pheasants in a Dish . Godvvits , Knots , Quailes , and the rest of the meares ansvverable for halfe a score , or a dosen persons of the best quality : vvhom I vvill thinke of presently .  I haue it directly . You shall goe to the Ordinaries , and from thence inuite such young Gallants as you find to be Gamesters . I meane of the highest cut .  I directly . If they know me , or haue heard of me t is sufficient : we shall be soone acquainted . Bring not a man with any paid for gold Lase or Scarlet about him , I charge you , nor without a Protection in his pocket .  And much good do 't their good hearts . What I haue is mine owne , and I will bee merry with it directly . You haue put me by one or two courses : But not all your discretion shall beat me out of this . If you take some care in the busines , and huswife the intertainement to make it braue for my credit , you may get a Gowne or a Iewell by it . If not —  Why now you speake .  Let him say mine eyes are opened , and their vertue is reuealed  vnto me . And if any of the youngsters haue Mistrisses , let 'hem bring 'hem . They shall haue Mn●cke● what I haue is mine owne , and I will be merry with it . My flesh , though not in the way of mariage , requires some satisfaction too . Where might a man in all this plentifull Towne , find a choyce peece directly that he might make his owne ? only his owne ? A very hard question . And custome has made it almost an vnreasonable , though it were in ones owne Wife . In a Cittizens or Tradesmans Wife ; a Man must suffer the Riuall-ship of a slouenly husband : the stinke of his hornes euer vnder ones nose . A cast Lady , or Gentlewoman of courtly acquaintance , to maintaine her , is to feed a Fountaine , that wasts it selfe through many Spowts : What I supply her with , will be drawne out by twenty . All her friends must share of my prodigality . To traine vp an innocent countrey Girle , is like hatching a Cuckoe ; as soone as shee is ripe , and sees the world afore her , shee flies at her aduantage , and leaues mee dead i' the neast . How now .  Who brings her ?  Looke on his feet . Sure t is the Diuell in his likenesse : That old Bawd knowing how it stood with me , has brought me one of his Succubae Art . Sure t is Vexhem ?  You know my mind . I will in and handle this g●ere in priuity .  Sirah I will teach you how to deale with Dealers , and not with vertuous Gentlewomen ; bring Innocency before Iustice ; and be able to lay nothing to her charge .  Most officious Sir . What warrant had you ? None . What is the Captaines name ? you know not . Where 's his lodgeing ? you are ignorant . But here was your cunning ; it appeares most plainely , that you thinking her to bee one of the trade , thought to make a Prey of her purse : which since your affrightment , could not make her open vnto you , you thought to make her Innocency smart for 't . I will make your Knauery smart for 't directly . Come is the Mittimus ready ? gi' mee 't —  Here take him forth , and let the next Constable conuey him to Nowgate .  Away I say directly . As I am in my right Mind and Midlesex . I will shew my iustice on thee .  Do's the Knaue laugh ? Bring him backe . May a man aske the cause of your Mirth ? Vex . Sir I haue laught at the vexation of a thousand in my dayes . I hope I may haue leaue once in my life to laugh at mine owne .  Oh is it so ? Pray hold you merry sir .  Now Lady , whereas you were brought before me as a Delinquent , I retaine you as my Mistris . I like her beyond measure . A pretty young thing : new brought to a pace ! Ah , h● ! Shee has committed a little Countrey folly , as shee priuately confesses . What 's that ● It may stand in ranke with that they call vertue here ; and then shee is content to liue as priuately as I please . Shee shall vp , I will winter and sommer her before shee shall see a high way of this Towne . Shee 's for my turne directly . Mistris Holdup , is your name say you ?  Holdup ! I haue heard of him , and know what t was that sunke him . Hee liu'd by the Sea side ; t was trading with the Pirats . Buying their goods , and selling them victuals ;  Which is enough ● enough directly ; if you can beare your selfe discreetly , and containe your selfe within those bounds of Fortune , in which I le plant you . Alas good soule , weepe not ; let Money and Authority bee thy comfort . By which thou shalt feele no want , nor feare no danger . But to our busines . I haue already acquainted you with my Neece Constances disease , and that shee is remou'd out of my house for her health . I will lodge you at a trusty Tenants house where she is vnknowen . You shall take her name vpon you .  And if you can but a little counterfet her Melancholly , you may freely passe for her ; and my accesses to thee , my sweet Girle , shall crowne vs with fulnes of delight and pleasure .  Now had I but ● fit attendant for the person of my loue ▪   Then we were fitted . How now .  Stand you by vnseene a while . Send him in . I doe expect some Message now , in the behalfe of her vnlucky Ladyships wise brother , Master Widgi●e , touching my Neece . Now stend how do's my good Lady ?  Thou leftest her very ill indeed . But well , thou wouldst haue me bee a meanes to reestablish thee in thy Lady .  I speake by a figure Humfrey : for to be inward with , or indeed within a Mistris , is to be a ser●●●e in the most Courtly phrase .  Most intelligent Humfrey . Let vs retire to the purpose . Put case I haue a Mistris in store for you ; to whom I may commend you vpon my owne credit , and vndertake for your entertainment and meanes by my owne purse . What would you say ? what would you doe ?  Well said directly . Incipe Humfride . Say your part .  What is his Boldnesse .  How is it rewarded ?  Perge Humfrey His neatnesse now ?  His Howdees .  I beleeue thee .  And how is this neatnesse rewarded Humfrey ?  Well Humfrey , because wee will not make this scene too long , we will omit the rest : onely why are your last foure parts , Diligence , Obedience , Truth and Honesty vnrewarded ?  Most edifying Humfrey . I haue a Mistris in store for thee .  Didst thou never see my Neece Constance ?  Feare it not Hum●rey . My 〈◊〉 ease thy care . Neece come forth .  [ Enter Holdup . ]  I shall fit you with a seruant . Fall to your Postures Humfrey . Your Garbe .  [ He does his postures ]  So . Your Pace . So . Your Congie . So . Hand your Lady . Good . Arme your Lady . Good still . Side your Lady . Very good . Draw out your Lady . Excellent . Present  your Lady . Singular well , good Humfrey .  Precious Humfrey , I admire thy Art .  Now Humfrey , Walke your Lady to the Burse .  Well said Humfrey . Here 's something for my instruction . Now wayt your Lady to the Burse . She has some trifles to buy there . I will finde you there presently , and conduct you to your lodging .  As I would wish ! her simplicity takes mee aboue her beauty . Goe I say . I 'le follow . Mee thinkes I eene feele my selfe , thanke my selfe for being in this good humour . What I haue is mine owne , and I will be merry with it directly . —  Where 's my Girle ? My hony sweet Girle ? Kisse mee ; Kisse I say directly : I 'le secure thee . As I am a Man of Authority , and that of Midlesex , I 'le secure thee . Ha my Lasse , these lips haue the true Elixir in 'hem indeede , to restore youth and strength ; past all Medeas charmes , or vvhat the Poets vvould haue fained . How now 〈…〉 Loue ? I hope my Neeces habit has not wrought her di●ease into thee .  'T was a thousand pitties that this Wench was seduc'd . Shee might haue made a Wife for a good Esquire . Shee would serue a Tradesman yet , most vnblemishably . And vvhen I haue done vvith her , doing that for her , as I meane to doe . She may perhaps match with a younger brother , purchase him a place , aduance his fortune , to bee able in the end to repay she vvith a Ladiship . 'T is not vvithout a president ; and I will help her to follow the example directly . For vvhat I haue is mine owne , and I vvill be merry vvith it . Ha my bird , my chick ● Kisse me . Kisse me vp . So . Kisse me vp I say . So againe . Thou hast don 't directly . Maintaine it now , vvith a cordiall kisse . So , so , so ▪ Good . Very good ; and while it is so , a vvord with you in priuate . Come my bird , mh mh mh .  Sir , vvhat haue I to doe with any vvoman below : Doe you with your vvoman below , I am very well here .  I am downe already . All 's naught . What limb of the devill is 't ? Do'st thou know her ?  Hell take her . How could she know that I was here ?  Keepe her downe , I 'le follow thee —  I must home to my Clearke then : for I cannot write here ; nor do any good besides I am so vex'd . But I will returne to thee in the evening , Duck : And since I am so apt to be spied , ● will come disguis'd .  I will be disguis'd directly . I will runne through all the shapes of Iupiter , befor● I will againe be prevented . Farewell . O my sweet ! At seuen in the euening expect me . —  Where 's this Doctor ? where 's this melancholly Gentlewoman ?  Where 's my charge ? I le goe find her ! What 's the meaning ?  There went a Coach away as I came in . Whose was it ?  At what in your great Master the Diuels name ? Where 's my Neece ?  Well .  VVell , well .  Very very well . While you were wisely talking about the cure , a Widgine flies away with the Patient . Where 's this Doctor ? Doctor I say . Doctor ! Hee 's run away too , my life on 't . A meere plot , a Conspiracie ; t is so directly , below there . I can not see how it can bee otherwise .  Ent. Cleark .  Saw you the Doctor ? Yes sir , hee went now forth at the water-Gate , and tooke boat in hast .  Exceeding well ▪ How came your Discretion acquainted with this Doctor ?  A most rare fellow , and do's admirable tricks , by slight of heeles . But I may perhaps out-run 'hem —  O are you here my Lady Lucklesse ?  Slow wov , where is my Neece ?  My Neece Constance , that your brother Widgine stole from the Doctor , and is stowne away withal . But hee must not thinke to scape so ? I may take him , and his Duck too , in my Decoy , before they be coupled , as sure as your Ladiship or your Fitchow ship , and they thinke your selues .  The plot smels of your Ladiships policy ; your Ladiships Lilly white fist is foule in the busines . But I will haue a bout at fisticuffs in Law with your Ladyship : your great acquaintance , and alliance in the Whatshical . Court No●●b●● 〈◊〉 your power there must not cary it , my great Lady . Directly it must not .  I pray you , Forsooth , or sweet Madame , or what you please ; Where is my Neece ?  Shee mocks me to my face all this while . Well good-Wife , Mistris , Madame —  Prick Madame : I tell thee thou Thing , made vp of Chippings , broken Beare , Candle-ends , and sisting of Sea cole .  I will be so reueng'd —  Hee had beene better to haue kild a Man , rauish'd ● Virgiue ; nay , done the most dangerous contempt that law could deuise to punish , then if I take him to suffer vnder my reuenge .  I le muster vp my Constables , and send out a priuy search immediately . —  Very good ! I am brought before my selfe to bee examin'd , and before a fine rable too ! how the deuill brok this vnknowne Nation into my house , or doe not I mistake it ? My foolery has led me into a fine predicament . I will not yet disclose my selfe : but looke a little further towards the event .  Such a one as you see Signior .  Hey day !  Not an English word not I s●● . Alasse I haue not been fiue ●ayes in the Kingdome .  Am I transform'd vtterly ? Is my Language alter'd with my apparell , or are you all mad ? what vnspeakeable misery is this .  You officious Rascall , are you mad ?  Trainewell !  I am astonish'd . What is your Demaund ?  I am in a mischieuous streight then . Redime to captum . Thy wit deserues my loue . I le do 't ; here 's my hand and faith , I le  do 't . Thou art mine , and I am thine directly .  Thou hast made me a Man for euer , and I will make thee a Woman directly . Gallants saue you . See here the Metamor.phosis , that meanes to metamorphose you all . Alas I know you for all your Disguises , and thought to intertaine you in your kind .  First out of you , my Vsurper , and most Vpstartical Iustice , whose office is your trade , and Clearke your Prentice , I will draw a man of litle , or no Moment : yet my frend , and Master Bulfinch , out of the Chaire of Iustice . this my prognosticate the p●t●ing of my selfe , or many others out of Commission within these few yeares ; though I am no Prophet . Doe I speake English now ? Doe I know you now , or you me ?  To proceed in my Metamorphosis . I will change you most confus'd Roarer , into an accomplisht Knight . And bid you welcome , noble sir Phillip Lucklesse .  Next sir of you Roarer , or Iieter , or whatsoeuer you are , I will make a compleat Gentleman , most answerable to you name Master Tridewell .  But out of you Master Doctor , I will pick a certaine Knaue . Where is my Neece sirah ?  Haue I so many sir ? I meane my only one Constance , find her me , ●r I will translate you out of an Aesculapian Cocke into a Newgate Bird immediatly .  This my Neece ?  Hold they peace ; art in thy right mind ?  Hold thy peace Knaue . I le put these plums i' thy mouth else   Sir Phillip , while they wrangle out their cause , let vs agree : Find you but the meanes to make her lawfully your Wife , and here take her with my faithfull promise , of the equall halfe of any estate presently .  Gentlemen and Ladies , I see you all at peace so well , that I wish no further content to any , except Master Nonsense here .  I am glad you conclude so frendly with the rest . All the vnquietnesse will be in the Kitchin presently If your meat stay for you . Gallants .  Knock Within  I was time to speake . They knock at Dresser already . Will yee in ?  You are all Welcome : And I wish euery Guest  as merry , as our Northern Lasses Feast . 