 I have foure hundred pounds sir ; and I brought it up to towne on purpose to make my selfe a cleare gentleman of it .  'T is true , I have a little learning sir , and a little wit , though last night I met with some upon the way at Hammer-Smith that had more : yet I had enough to perceive I was cheated of a matter of seaven pound ( almost all the odde mony I had about me ) at my Card afore thy Card ; a pox take the whole packe on 'em . Sdaggers if ever man that had but a mind to be a Gentleman was so noddy poopt ! oh how I could chafe to thinke on 't .  So you told me ; then I thanke you friend .  I have had more acquaintance where I have found lesse love , and I thanke you agen good small acquaintance : you told me indeed it became not a gentleman to crie for losing his mony ; and I told you then , that I should , or would be a gentleman : Whereupon Small acquaintance ( because I was resolv'd to play no more ) you advis'd me to give over ; and you told me you would upon our comming to the City , here bring mee to a Knight , that was a Gentleman-maker , whom I conceive this to be , and here am I , and here 's my foure hundred pound , which my man has here drawne up to Towne , and here I meane to quarter it .  Yes sir , I have a downe right Country wit , and was counted a pretty sparke at home . Did you never heare of little Tim of Tanton ? But I now meane to have a finicall City wit , and a superfinicall Court wit too , before I see mine Vncle .  And be able to jest and jeere among men of judgment : I have a many small jests , petty Johns , as I call 'hem : But I will have a clubbing wit , and a drinking wit ; and be able to hold play with the great Poets I : and with dry jests to maule the mallipart'st lesser ones ( that hold themselves better than the biggest ) out o' the pit of wit I , before I see mine uncle .  For that you shall pardon me , till I am a Gentleman : But I assure you he is a great gentleman in the City here ; and I neither must nor dare see him , till I am one at least : and I will tell you presently how I meane to quarter my money .  Look you sir , thus had I cast it : Small acquaintance pray doe you note it too : I love your advice , that at first sight of mee ( which was but last night ) could relieve me from Cheaters .  The first hundred pound to be for the making of mee a gentleman : the second hundred shall be for apparell .  The third hundred I le spend in pleasure : harke Small acquaintance , we 'll have wenches .  Oh Small acquaintance , that must walke too : but all for profit to support my gentility hereafter .  I will be cheated of it .  Nor in grosse , but by retaile , to trye mens severall wits , and so learne to shift for my selfe in time and need be .  No words on 't J beseech you sir ; nor name that foolish word Yeomans sonne any more : J came to change my Coppy , and write Gentleman : and to goe the nighest way to worke , my Small acquaintance here tells me , to goe by the Heralds is the farthest way about .  Timothy Hoyden , sir .  But must J bleed sir ?  As ranck a Clowne , none disprais'd , as any in Sommerset shire .  You will leave me none in my body then , I shall bleed to death , and you go that way to worke .  How must that be done ?  Delicate !  Of the ayre do you meane ?  Excellent , I like all excellently well , but this bleeding . I could never endure the sight of blood .  I was bewitch'd I thinke before I was begot , to have a Clowne to my father : yet sit my mother said shee was a Gentlewoman .  Nay , small acquaintance , she profest it upon her Death-bed to the Curate and divers others , that she was sister to a Gentleman here in this City ; and commanded mee in her Will , and uppon her blessing , first to make my selfe a Gentleman of good fashion ,  and then to goe to the gentleman my uncle .  I must not , nor I wo'not tell you that , till I am a gentleman my selfe : would you ha' me wrong the will o' the dead ? Small acquaintance , I will rather dye a Clowne as I am first .  Say you so ?  I thanke you sir :  I wou'd 't were done once .  O brave !  By no meanes sir .  'T is somewhat thicke and foule indeed sir .  I thanke you small acquaintance ; pray let me have a bath , what ere it cost me , rather than flea me .  My man may attend me too , may he not ?  Marry I feele that I am hungry , and that my shrimped yet and sippings have almost famished me , and my purse too ; slid I dare be sworne , as I am almost a gentleman , that every bit and every spoonfull that I have swallowed these ten dayes , has cost me ten shillings at least .  Small acquaintance I doe not lye to you : truth's truth , as well in a Gentleman as a begger , for I am both almost , and perhaps not the first that can write so .  There 's one of my hundred pounds gone that way , all but these twelve pieces .  Then there 's my apparell , a hundred pound went all in three suits , of which this is the best .  Marry I thinke that was the best laid out : for by it I have got wit enough to know that I was as cleerely cosen'd of it as heart can wish : o' my soule and conscience , and as I am almost a gentleman , and a man had come to London for nothing else but to be Cheated , hee could not bee more roundlier rid of his money .  Nay pray sir bee not angry , ( though to the shame of a Gentleman I say it ) my teeth doe ee'ne water at the name of the sweet Country dish you spoke of ( bacon and bag-pudding ) yet I will forbeare it : but you say I shall fill my belly with this new Daintrill that you spake of ; these Sparowbills , what doe you call 'hem .  Top full I beseech you .  True , you said you would help me to a boy no bigger than a Monkey .  Coulter you must to the plough again ; you are too heavy a clog at the heeles of a gentleman .  The Clowne , my fathers heire , will be glad of you .  You doe not heare me say he is my brother ; but the clown my father had a former son , by a former wife , that was no gentlewoman as my mother was , and he is a Clowne all over , and incurable , even get you to him , like to like will agree well : here 's a Crowne for you , 't will carry you a foote to Tanton ; and so get you gone like a Clowne as you are .  Would hee were beyond Brainford on his way then by this time for me . But you forget the way you were in ; you said you would fill my belly ; and then fall to practice fine complements and congies to make me a perfect gentleman , and fit to see mine unknowne uncle .  See if my Surgeon and his wife have not fil'd themselves , and come wiping their lips already .  But may J now be confident that J am almost a gentleman .  And then the spending the little rest of my mony , & J am a cleare gentleman , & may see my uncle .  And I will write it , and crowd it into as many Bonds as I can a purpose to write gentleman ; Timothy Hoyden of Tanton — no , of London , Gentleman : London is a common place for all gentlemen of my ranke , is it not ?  But as I hope to live and dye a gentleman Mrs. what shi' call ' , your reckoning was devillish deare : s'daggers three pound for a few Cuckoe pintles , they were no better I thinke .  Poxe on 't , I had forgot .  Pray let 's about it quickly .  My first worke when I am compleat gentleman shall bee  to get them a Child , and make 'hem friends .  Both Rules and Rudiments I have al ad unguem .  Principles to be imprinted in the heart of every new made gentleman : To commend none but himselfe : to like no mans wit but his owne : to slight that which he understands not : to send mony , & never look for 't agen : to take up upon obligation , & lend out upon affection : to owe much , but pay little : to sell land , but buy none : to pawn , but never to redeem agen : to fight for a whore :  to cherish a Bawd , and defie a trades-man .  I hope I can sir , and have begunne pretty well already : you see I have spent and lent all my money ; and pawn'd all my Cloaths but these a' my backe , as I am a cleare gentleman ; and for the rest of the rudiments , and the severall carriages and deportments by garbe , by congy , complement , &c. which are to be attain'd by practice when I come abroad and amongst 'hem , you shall gaine credit by me .  Bum tricke !  Single Rapier , and Back-sword Complement foyle .  As I am a Gentleman , a neate bout and fairely come off o' both sides .  Sweet sir I shall ever blesse , &c.   Miserably impoverisht in it selfe — oh sweet .  Peece up the defect of your friend with a glory of your owne : most stately fine , as I am a gentleman .  I that I would see , like the hackling of the Millers leggs : now for a delicate back-blow .  Yes sir , a well-spoken gentleman and a lovely .  What he is not , is he ?  Ha , ha , ha .  That gallant sir ?  Good and enough ; doe you call this good enough , to abuse one another thus ?  J shall soonest hit o'th is ; for from a whelpe I could give scurvey language .  O course salutation : save you sir Hugh .  He 's runne with my Hat and Cloak by your leave .  You say so small acquaintance ; but I could ne're see any thing of mine againe , since I came amongst you , if it once got out of my sight : what money have I left troe ?  What without a hat or cloak ?  Sweet sir , I shall ever blesse my auspicious starres , that shin'd me into the falicious acquaintance of so singular goodnes .  Most singular sweet sir , most miserably impoverish't in it selfe .  You peece up the defect of your friend with a glory of your owne .  Within this fortnight I assure you sir , as rank a Clown o' one side , as ever held Cow to Bull .  Now note me sir : doe you see that fellow I left ?  The arrantest coxcomb in a Country   Made onely to make Physick worke .  A tilting stocke for young practisers to break jests on : there 's a wipe for you at backe sword Complement .  You knock at the wrong doore sir , and I pitty your ignorance : goe to schoole as I have done , and learn more wit : kick a gentleman .  Away Clowne I know thee not canst thou complement ?  I understand thee not , as I am a gentleman .  Ha , ha , ha ; who understands the Barbarian tro ?  I know that voyce , & let me see the man ; it is my surgeon .  A gentleman you would say , or my cost was ill besto'd there .  T is all I have to shew for foure hundred pound I laid out in your house ; and Sir Hugh put it upon me , and hir'd these men to carry me — Whither was it ?  Where he promis'd to finish his worke of a gentleman in me , and send me to my Vncle .  I finde J am abus'd enough o' conscience : and shall be carried to mine Vncle now before my time and not as a gentleman , but as a gentlewoman , which grieves me worst of all .  Oh .  Oh , oh , that ever I was born in this groaning chaire .  T is all I could get to scape without of the cozning house ; and all I have to shew of foure hundred pound ; but this certificate and this small jewel which my dying mother ga' me ; and I had much ado to hide it from the Cheaters , to bring unto mine Vncle ; which is he ?  That was my mother .  And a gentleman ? what a divellish deale of mony might I ha sav'd ! for gentle-men let me tell you , I have been cozen'd black and blew ; backe-guld and belly-guld ; and have nothing left me but a little bare Complement to live upon , as I am a cleare gentleman .  Vncle you shall : First I le give you a hit at single Rapier complement : and then a wipe or two with the Back-sword Complement and I ha done .  Noble Mr. Striker the grave Magistrate ( if my apprehension deale fairely with me ) whose prayses reach to Heaven , for the faire distribution of equall justice : the poore mans Sanctuary , the righter of Widdowe 's , and the Orphans wrongs .  Note you yond justice sits upon the Bench ?  The Stockes were fitter for him : the most corrupted fellow  about the Suburbs , his conscience is stewd in Bribes , all his poore neigbours curse him ; t is though the keeps a whoor now at three score .  His Neece is much suspected .  I know no Neece he has , I speak but backsword complement .  Here 's one that came to complaine of me for my Robes here , but I ha lost my small acquaintance .  Sweet Sir I thanke you . 