 But I will see what penniworths you bargaine for first , by your Masterships leave .  They 'll quarter that and you too , if I zee not the better to the matter .  There 's a plot now !  I that ich I would heare .  This stands to reason indeed .  I begin to beleeve honestly of the Knight .  I like that best : sure they are honest men .  No sir , my name is Coulter ; I my selfe am a Coulter .  and this is but my Hanger on , as I am my Masters .  All my friends will be glad on 't .  You see now what a fine hand you have made of your money , since you got it out of my clutches .  I would he're come to that once .  Humh —  Yes wusse , to pick 's money out if he had it ; shortly 't will come to that bevore 't be long .  I with all my heart , and I con you thanks too .  'T is well you allow me some mon ey yet : we shall have you begge all the way home shortly , when your Cheaters have done we ' yee .  Nay why do not you , he dares not ? though he could spare his Clowne blood , he dares not venture his Gentleman blood so , nor you yours , t is all too fine I doubt ; therefore keepe it , & make much on 't : I would be loath a jaile should stay my journey , or by my Cursen soule I would see , what colour the best on 't were before I goe . But if I don't your errand to your brother , and tell'n how you doe vlout  'em behinde 's back , then say Cut's a Curre : And so a vart vor a varewell to the proudest o'yee ; and if you be an anger'd , tak 't in your angry teeth .  T is all true , as I am a Cursen fellow Mr. Thomas , every word on 't : ● scorne to lye in a sillibub I ; what lucke had I to meete you ? I never thought to zee you at London .  Ay , and o' his zelfe too , as his Cony catchers ha handled him : And you had zeen't , you would ha' be pist your zelfe vor woe , how they blooded him .  And then how they spurg'd his guts out .  A Bots light on 'hem , 't would ha made a dog zick to zeet how like a scalded pig he look'd .  And then how they did veed'ne with a zort of zlip zlaps not all worth a' messe o' milke porredge to make him vine vorsooth .  You le zee zuch an altrication in him as never was zeen in a brother .  I that would be zeene now .  I le keepe my countenance , and zet a vace on 't too and need be .  I marry Mr. so you might make a better journey on 't then the gentleman your brother .  Wee 'l part you with a vengeance .  Moyles sir , wee be no Moyles would you should well know .  Your project will not hold Mr. Thomas , best zeek your brother Tim , hee has a zertification from the parish , and the Priest too , of all your mothers mind , and you could cosen him on 't , and come agen , and uncle this weese gentleman , whether he wooll or no ; 't would be vine i'vaith   Here he is and here be all the crue on 'hem , and more .  I hope he 'll veeze you , and make your zilken jacket hum : well zed Mr. Thomas to 'hem , and to 'hem all I le zide yee .  Uds vish Master they do nothing but jeer to you all this while now .  Zet a good vace on 't ; and veare no colours though .  These were o' the crew .  And then when were vast azleep , they all gave us the zlip , the Knight was gon , and the Squire was gon , & Mr. Tim was gon , but he was made away , without all peraventure ; for all the parrell that he wore was left behind : and then — speak Master . 