 Why doe you not your office courteous friends ?  Let me entreat you stay , and take me with you ;  Lay but your hands on mee : I shall not rest  untill I be arrested . A sore shoulder-ache  Paines and torments me , till your vertuous hands  Doe clap or stroake it .  O y' are unkinde .  Indeed I was not touch'd .  I know 't , and I le entreate my Lady wife  To mend thy wages tother forty shillings  A yeare , for thy true care of me .  The truth is —  Indeed my Lady wife t is so .  O , but anothers  Wife is another thing . Farre be it from  A Gentlemans thought to doe so , having a wife  And hand-mayd of his owne that he likes better .  her husband would  Doe so . But from my house I may not stray .  Pray let 's home then .  But is he not  Yet gone to schoole ?  O this is gallant pastime Nay come on ,  Is this your schoole ? was that your lesson , ha ?  Indeed  You shall to schoole , away with him ; and take  Their wagships with him ; the whole cluster of 'hem .  Away with 'hem I say ; and tell their Schoole-mistris ,  What trewants they are , and bid her pay 'hem soundly .  Both as the case requires my Lord .  Mine adversary doth complaine .  For silkes and  Stuffes receiv'd by me .  Yes my good Lord , he doth not now complain .  For money nor for wares  Againe : but he complaines .  In his wives cause .  In money I tender him double satisfaction ,  With his own wares again unblemished , undishonor'd .  But unto me ,  They were deliverd upon this condition ,  That I should satisfie his wife .  My Lord ,  Rather then not to stand out with all mens wives ,  Except mine owne , I le yield me into prison .  I offer him any other satisfaction ;  His wares againe , or money twice the value .  Boy — Boy .  Here take my Cloake .  T is heavy , and I sweat .  Out you Varlet ,  Dost thou obscure it , as thou meantst to pawne it ?  Is this a Cloake unworthy of the light ?  Publish it sirrah : — oh presumptuous slave ,  Display it on one arme — oh ignorance !  Nay prethee be not angry : Thus , and now  Be sure you bear 't at no such distance ; but  As 't may be knowne appendix to this booke .  Me ? she 's deceiv'd , I am not for her mowing .  No truly , I am none of those you look for .  The way is broad enough , unhand me pray you .  Some such there are , but I am none of those .  What ha you knowne me for ?  You are deceiv'd  The whole breadth of your nose , I scorne it .  Pray keepe  Your courtesie , I can bestow the wine  Vpon my selfe , if I were so dispos'd ,  To drinke in Tavernes ; fah .  Which if you doe ,  My wife shall thanke you for it ; but your better  Course is to seeke one fitter for your turne ,  You 'll lose your aime in me ; and I befriend you  To tell you so .  Helpe , oh helpe .  O murther , murther .  Heare me the truth .  Protest Sir , as I am a gentleman ,  And as my man 's a man she beat us both ,  Till I cryd murder .  He puts me out , my part is now  To bribe the Constable . 