 When J shall know I le tell , pray tell me first ,  How long have you beene married ?  And truely so have J , we shall agree J see .  No woman merrier , now J have met with one  Of my condition . Three yeares married say you , ha , ha , ha ,  Three yeares married , Ha , ha , ha .  T is just my story . And you have had no child ,  That 's still my story , Ha , ha , ha .  Are you sure on 't ,  Or does your husband onely tell you so ,  Take heed o'th at , for husbands are deceitfull .  Yet both he  And you may be deceiv'd , for now I le tell you ,  My husband told me , fac'd me downe and stood on 't ,  We had three sonnes , and all great travellers ,  That one had shooke the great Turke by the beard ,  I never saw 'hem , nor am I such a foole  To thinke that children can be got and borne ,  Train'd up to men , and then sent out to travell ,  And the poore mother never know nor feele  Any such matter ; there 's a dreame indeede .  He may put dreames into me , but  He nere put child nor any thing towards it yet  To me to making : something sure belongs  weepe .   To such a worke for I am past a child  My selfe to think they are found in parsley beds ,  Strawberry banks or Rosemary bushes , though  I must confesse I have sought and search'd such places ,  Because I would faine have had one .  Pray tell me , for I thinke no body heares us ,  How came you by your babes ? I cannot thinke  Your husband got them you .  Nor with him neither , be not angry pray now .  For were I now to dye , I cannot guesse  What a man do's in child-getting , I remember  A wanton mayd once lay with me , and kiss'd  And clip't , and clapt me strangely , and then wish'd  That I had beene a man to have got her with childe :  What must I then ha' done , or ( good now tell me )  What has your husband done to you ?  Yes he do's use to lye with me , but he do's not  Lye with me to use me as she should I feare ,  Nor doe I know to teach him , will you tell me ,  I le lye with you and practise if you please .  Pray take me for a night or two : or take  My husband and instruct him , But one night ,  Our countrey folkes will say , you London wives  Doe not lye every night with your owne husbands .  Nay now againe y' are angry .  I thanke you .  Indeed , indeed , I thanke you .  My Child shall thanke you for it , when I have one .  I take no joy in toyes since I was marryed .  Indeed I am weary , and would faine goe home .  The Play : what play ? It is no Childrens play ,  Nor no Child-getting play , pray is it ?  If it be me your wife commends you to ,  You shall not need to stray from your owne house .  I 'll goe home with you .  Ha , ha , ha .  T is true , for I should weep for that poore daughter ,  T is like she 'll have no children , pray now looke ,  Am not I crooked too ?  I le doe as any body bids me for a childe .  He kisses sweetly ;  And that is more then ere my husband did .  But more belongs then kissing to child-getting ;  And he 's so like my husband , if you note him ,  That I shall but lose time and wishes by him ,  No , no , I le none of him .  O but try him you first : and then tell me .  And so shall I ,  After a few such nights more . 