 You say very well sir . And neuer credit me as you knew my Father , I would be very ready , as you know how duety binds : for because it is a vsuall thing in these dayes , desiring the loue and friendship , I protest and vow sir . I should —  Neuer credit mee sir , if I haue her , or haue her not to my knowledge .  Neuer credit me , but I for sooth am of that opinion , that it is as it were . I protest and vow — I should be as sorry as any Man . —  Neuer credit me pretty Gentlewoman —  You are a L●sse indeed . I protest and vow , and such ●●ne , as I would bee very sorry to appeare any way , or in the least decree , as it were please you to vnderstand me : for I le be sworne , ●he●e is not in the World .  If you will beleeue me Lady .  There is not in the world I say —  There is not in the world any Gentlewoman —  Yes Lady , I am sir Phillip .  Neuer credit me sir , if you will beleeue me but —  If I put her to 't or euer offer to put any Woman to 't againe , neuer credit me : let me neuer be trusted , I protest and 〈◊〉 Gentlewoman shee has vs'd me —  I cannot put her to 't , nor she will not be put to 't . Sing .  If mine bee , you can best read 'hem , t' is your owne hand-writing .  I see I am not such an Asse , I would I might neuer stir but I am — Where 's Sir Paull If I doe not tell him —  Nothing but what I can answere in a sort d ee see me as well as — neuer gi' me credit I had warrant vnder his hand   By word of mouth sir .  Shee vnderstands nothing that I can speake .  I thanke you sir .  I tit not speak with Sir Paule then , it seemes , to know the reason vvhy I am subdoodled thus , In I protest and vow a kind of fooles Paradise .  H● you any Whitpots ?  To try is he would forget it or no ?  But what must I say to 'hem ?  Onely salute 'hem , bid 'hem welcome . Tell 'hem Sir Paule was hastily call'd forth on his Maiesties affaires . Entreat their patience till his returne , which you know vvill bee very sodaine , although you know not vvhere he is . And so forth as occasion serues .  No I protest and vow . I doe but speake as they say . —  What you said I haue an ill verbatim else .  No sir . I will take your owne vvords for this matter .  Onely salute 'hem . Bid 'hem vvelcome —  Tell 'hem Sir Paule vvas hastily call'd forth on his Maiesties affaires —  Entreat their patience till his return , which you know .  Will be very sodaine , although you know not where hee is —  And so forth as occasion serues .  Neuer credit me , but I will spowt some Cornish at him . Peden bras vidne whee his cregas .  Neuer credit me but I haue had sport enough 'o conscience , and if I doe not make a Stage phyen't , when I come into Cornewall : I protest and vow then say there was Nonsense in this . 