 Why , if he haue , hee may thanke such as you are , that can endure no iest .  My name is Walter Widgine sir , not to be denyed ▪ the only brother here of sir Phillip Lucklesse his betroth'd . She is a Widgine borne sir , and of the best family : Our Ancestors flew out of Holland in Lincolnshire to preuent persecution .  Like enough sir . My sister can tell you . Since , by marriage , shee was made a Fitchow : Her husband was Fitchow the civill Lawyer ; Hee was call'd the great Cannonier of the civill Law : because he could dischardge or make report of euery Canon therein ; Canon after Canon , or Canon vpon Canon at his fingers ends , as readily as I can tell these peeces .  He had many rare parts in him , besides sir , as my sister can tell you .  But all the good I can speake of him is , that he left my sister rich ; or at least a reasonable estate , halfe a score thousand pounds or so : which shee , with her selfe , bestowes vpon this honourable knight sir Phillip Luckles , to bee a Lady ▪ of that name , and God gi' him ioy . And for you : being his kinsman , I shall desire your neerer acquaintance .  I and halfe a score Aldermens fellowes to boote : yet refus'd all for him .  My sister can tell you more sir .  For my part I honour any Man , that marries my  sister . Sir Phillip , and my noble brother in expectation , I pray embrace my Governour , Captaine Anvile , here ; and giue him and me our gloues : you shall find him worthy your acquaintance . Hee has wit , I can tell you ; and breakes as many good iests as all the VVits , Fits , and Fancies about the Towne , and has traind vp many young gentlemen , both here , and in diuers parts beyond the Seas . Hee was dry nurse ( that 's one of his owne iests vpon himselfe ) to the English youth , a dozen yeares together beyond Sea : And now he is my Governour , and I find profit in it : you cannot thinke what an asse I was before I met with him : And I meane to trauell with him , two or three yeares hence , my selfe . In the meane time , he shall spend a hundred a yeare out of Wat Widgines purse . Sha't ●faith Governour , what aylest thou ? art thou not right ?  Will you not call me brother ? Two dayes hence when you haue married my sister , you must . Must hee not , Governour ?  Hee ayles something .  I some two yeares hence , mistake me not . I know I am but young yet : besides I meane to marry first as other young heires doe . And then towry lowry , faith , my noble Governour , and I ! T will be braue going into France then : I may learne halfe their fashions before I goe , and bate so much , being taught at when I come there . VVhat 's the matter Governour ? thou wert not wont to bee thus . Is thy money all gone ? Here 's fiue peeces to buy pomps against my sisters wedding .  Pox on 't I had forgot . That sciruy surly gentleman angerd him ere while , and put him out of patience . How the hot fome of his rage boyles out at his Mouth ▪ If I durst  goe so neere the heate of him I would skim the pot .  I there t is , he will never come to himselfe till he beat , or bee beaten .  I must venter on him . Nay Governour : pray thee consider . —  I warrant t is my sister . Shee frownd , did shee not , and look'd fightingly ? If shee did , 't is my sister , your wife that shall be . Shee will looke so at you , I can tell you , or me , or my Governour , for all he is a Captaine . Shee feares no colours I faith , to tell you true , shee beate him once for a  iest he broke vpon her Monkey . Is it not shee , thinkst thou ?  My Lady that shall bee ! how sweetly it chimes . Here 's something for that word .  Sister , where are you ? My Governour and I are come to waite vpon you in sir Phillip Lucklesse coach . It waits at doore for you ; and what to doe thinke you ?  Or else me no or elses , sister , you cannot guesse it . And I was a foole to aske you the question , now I think on 't .  Sister , you are to be a Lady , within this halfe houre . Your knight is ready , so is the Parson too . My Gouernour here knowes .  There 's a iest now : but shee vnderstands it not . He makes her an Infidell , a wild beast or a Monster , by that word Incounter ; what doe Knights adventurers incounter else ? looke all the Mirror over . Hee 'll incounter her . O the wit of a Gouernour !  Ever at the tayle of his d ee heare , I am sure to smell a iest : the fits come on him :  By my faith , and he may do 't . Hee is rich Gouernour ; one of the best Ten i' th' hundred men about this Towne .  Nay , there you mistake Gouernour . A good man i' th Citty is not call'd after his good deeds , but the knowne weight of his purse . One , whose name any Vsurer can read without spectacles ; One that can take vp more with two fingers and a thombe vpon the Exchange , then the great man at Court , can lift with both his hands ; One that is good onely in riches , and weares nothing rich about him but the Gout , or a thombe Ring with his Grandsires sheepmarke , or Grannams butter-print on 't , to seale bags , acquittances and Counternanes .  I t were a cunning Herald could find better Armes for some of 'hem : though I haue heard ●●r Paul Squelch protest he was a gentleman , and might quarter a coat by his Wiues side . Yet I know hee was but a Grasier when he left the Countrey ; And my Lord his father whistled to a teame of horses ( they were his owne indeed . ) But now hee is right worshipfull , and I would I had his Neece vnsight and vnseene I faith for her monies sake . You neuer heard mee aske if shee were faire or hansome , d ee marke that sister ? My fathers rule right . And if I be not a true Widgine . ( God forgi' me ) I thinke he was none .  I now you bring me to bed sister .  Hee liues not that loues a Countrey thing like me ▪ Alas none loues a Countrey thing like mee . And though I am a Cockney , and was neuer further then Hammersmith ; I haue read the Countrey mans common wealth ; and can discourse of Soccage and Tenure , Free-hold , Copy-hold ; Lease , Demeanes , Fee-simple and Fee-taile , Plowing , Hedging , Diking , Grubbing , occupying any Countrey thing whatsoeuer ; and take as much pleasure in 't , as the best Clowne borne of 'hem all .  Pardon me Gouernour . I doe heare and not heare thee at this time .  Gouernour , I know thou spokst a iest now , by thy d ee heare : but prithee forgiue me ; I cannot applaud nor marke thee at this time .  Nay , shee is so vext now I Deare sister to the Countrey Lasse againe . You said , she spoke and sung Northernly . I haue a great many Southerne songs already . But Northern ayres nips it dead . Yorke Yorke for my money .  Bishop , nor Bishoprick shall hold her from mee .  Sister no more , though I haue never seene her . No Bishoprick i' th' land from me shall winne her . If you will goe , and clap hands with your knight , come ; I would see you matchd first : because that will add some honour to the Widgines , when my selfe shall bee brother to a Lady . I shall write first of that name . And then am I no sooner married , Gouernour , but wee will set our trauels a foot : to know Countries , and Nations , Sects and Factions , Men and Manners ; Language and Behauiour .  And so in height of complement grow compleat  More goes to making of a Man , then meat .  T is indirectly sir if shee bee stolne . There your word failes you .  Hee 's mad I thinke . Sir you forget my sister is a lady .  My Countrey thing sister , that you promis'd me ?  Are you the Man sir that must haue her ?  Nay sister .  I dare warrant you sister these are of his friends , that come with their Loues to congratulate his fortune . Speake Master Nonsense . A speech of your would do 't .  It this were to bee put into latine now . Which were the principall Verbe .  Did I not tell you .  Brother I told you alwayes shee had hasty humors , and as vnreasonable as heart can wish : but soone over . Now shee 's as mild as any Doue againe .  ●our Ne●ce sir Paul , ods me I must goe see her .  Stay shall ? I will then .  Whoo● My Gouernour : Looke you sister . Looke you Sir Phillip . Did nor I alwayes tell you he was the rarest wit ●the world ? This was his owne invention ●e bee hang'd else . Sweet Gouernour the conceit of  the Willow , and why thou wearest it ?  Excellent ! the Bride 's stollen to bed .  A pretty Morall A Womans duety to lye downe , and a Mans loue to get vp . One may learne something of these old fellowes euery day .  Take me with you good sir Paul to see your Neece . I find Master Nonsense here very indifferent , And I know t will be the greater ioy to her to match but into the family of sir Phillip , of which I am a halfe Piller now . Besides my sister made me halfe a promise of her in good faith , my gouernours my Witnesse , and I haue lou'd her euer since .  No , but I le bee hang'd if I did not loue her Visor the best ere while , though I could not tell whose t was , nor which was which .  Hee 's melancholly mee thinkes . Slid my sister may lye long enough languishing for a Ladiship , if this fit hold him : for shee has it not really till he goe to bed and ●u● her .  Yes , I le goe see for the Possets sake . —  Oh Sir you are defeated . My sister hath fortified her lodging with locks , bolts , barres , and barricados .  How now Gouernour ? what has angerd thee ? something troubles thy countenance .  By this light , Gouernour ? would you haue fought by Candle-light .  Ow'e-light .  A good iest ! Tride well vpon Tridewell . He has wit in his anger . But Gouernour , laying your anger aside , let me be beholden to your wit in atchieuing this Northern Lasse . Thy acquaintance with her must be the meanes . Prithee goe lye with me , and helpe mee to dreame out some course . Nay looke now thy furie blowes so high thou dost not heare me .  O Man past example !  Here , here . Thou shalt haue anything —  Nay sister . O governour , art here .  Haue you forgot my name sister ? would not Widgin● become your mouth , as wel ? forget your natural brothers name ?  Foutre for sisters ; I am not to medle with an other mans Wife . I am about one for my selfe . You mention'd her first to me . But I must be be holden to others wits and meanes to compasse her : or else —  Sister , VVife , and all , is a present nothing to this . Come round Gentlemen ▪ Keepe her but off , and let me alone .  Hee that marries a Scold , a Scold ,  Hee has most cause to be merry :  For when shee 's in her fits , he may cherish his wits  By singing hey downe derry .  Apprehend a fooles head . Come into play .  He that marries a merry Lasse ,  He has most cause to be ●ad ;  For let her goe free in her merry tricks , shee  Will worke his Patience mad .  But he that marries a Scold a Scold , &c.   He that weds with a Roa●ing Girle ,  that will both scratch and bite ▪  Though he study all day to make her away ,  will be glad to please her at night .  And he that copes with a sullen Wench ,  That scarce will speake at all ,  Her doggednesse more then a Scold or a Whore ,  Will perpetrate his Gall .  No blustring now good Governour : Prithee restraine thy fury . Thou canst never heare nor speak to that Gent. with any patience ; and yet he is on our side now . Prithee let 's loose no time . I never long'd more for my mothers comming from a Christning , then to be at this Northern Lasse . —  I le thanke her with all my heart , and shee shall neuer know on 't .  Feare no discouery Humfrey . Let me but see her , and I le warrant thee .  I warrant thee , and my Gouernour shall sir Phillip me at euery word ; and if I doe not sir Phillip her , better then euer shee was Phillips in her life , then say I am no Legitimate Widgine .  What 's shee doing . Ods me ● making a Baby I thinke Are you good at that ifaith ? I le be at that sport with you , it shall cost me a fall else .  What , what ?  And who 's the father ?  I le father it as well as hee . I st a Boy or a Girle trow ▪ Would shee would make a Christning Banquet while wee are here . Harke shee sings .  Peace wayward Barne ; O cease thy mo●e :  Thy farre more wayward Daddy 's gone :  And neuer will recalled be  By cryes of either thee , or me :  For should wee cry ,  vntill wee dye ,  VVee could not scent his cruelty .  Ballow , Ballow , &c.  H●e needs might in himselfe foresee ,  VVhat thou successiuely might'st be ;  And could hee then , ( though me foregoe )  His Infant leaue , ere hee did know ,  How like the Dad  would bee the Lad ,  In time , to make fond Maydens glad  Ballow , ballew , &c.   How is this pretty Mrs. Constance , that you complaine of your Loue before he be lost ?  Pray thee tell her Gouernour . I ha'not the heart to lye now .  I come for the same purpose Sweet-heart . I le both father and keepe thy Child , and make thee an honest Woman . Giue mee your hand before this Gentleman , and your Seruant here ; and say but the word ; I le get a Licence presently , fetch you away , and dispatch you to night .  As for thy wedding Lasse wee 'll doe well enough , in spight ● ' the best o' thy Kinne .  Gouernour ; wilt thou beleeue me ? It eene pitties my heart , to wrong so sweet a peece of simplicity . But Fortune has drest her for me to seed on ; and I le fall to .  By my troth t is pretty .  Sweet soule , thou shalt haue thy ioy againe . I will ioy thee , enioy thee , and ouer ioy thee . Gouernour let vs fly about this busines . I will not sleepe , before I haue got a License , stolne her away , wedded her , bedded her , and put her in her wits againe .  I le warrant thee : for all Maids are mad till they bee maried .  Sweet heart , not a word of mee till I come to fetch you off with honour .  Poore heart shee dotes . I doe not know how much I am in debt to my conscience , till I haue made her amends . —  Sister fall downe , and adore me for my great atchieuement . Humfrey kneele downe to her that shee may dub thee for thy seruice . Neuer did the best nos'd Dogs , that euer were coach'd for their goodnesse , hunt more truely , take more brauely , and cary away more cleanely , then we haue done this dainty peece of flesh here . Sister kisse her , and be better acquainted : shee is mine owne flesh , I le vphold it .  Sister come hether . Now heare and admire my wit ; as well as my Fortune . Humfrey come and take thy share of my sisters wonder .  Which wee must not see vnrewarded sister .  O at first , shee was the prettiliest mad that ere you saw . You your selfe can not deuise to be so mad , as shee was .  And all for sir Phillip , shee would loue none but sir Phillip , speake to none but sir Phillip . I told her I was sir Phillip ,  ( ah God a mercy Humfrey : that was thy inuention . ) Then the litle Viper hang vpon me , not to be shak'd off , til I promis'd her Mariage , and to father a Child , which , in her distraction , shee conceited shee had by me . I promis'd her any thing ; so tooke her into an inner too me , to make all sure , as well within as without ; and I so phillipt her —  But I must haue more , and shall neuer haue enough on 't . It passeth your vnderstanding and mine too , the delight of it .  [ Sing ]  Oh what a delight shee gaue me . And how light I am after 〈◊〉 Heigh . My pretty sweet Rascall .  You doe not loue to heare on 't , because you lack it . But you shall heare the Miracle it wrought sister . The losse of her Mayden head recouerd her wits . I made her right and streight in an instant . And now shee loues me in my owne person ; knowes me for a Widgine , and will not giue her Wat for the best sir Philip of them all . And longs for nothing but the Priest and Bed time . Ha my sweeter and sweeter I My Gouernour 's gone for a Licence .  I le vndertake —  That Humfrey , and I with the tricks and trinkets , wee haue about vs will cure all the mad Maids of her standing in the Tovvne . And doe not thinke , but much may be gotten to professe it .  Oh I could liue and dye in this discourse sir .  In and in sister , and be close enough , feare not —  Sir if you will Metamorphose me out of a Batchelor , into a Bridegroome , I le shew you your Neece .  Duck ? my name is Widgine , you mistake the man sure .  O I am vndone , quite cast away . Sister helpe mee now with your Law wit , or I perish for euer .  Most happily sir , sister all 's well againe . I haue giuen her a hundred pound to relinquish her right in me . Which afore all these witnesses you doe ; doe you not ?  Well then , I will not forsweare to marry , But if euer I steale a Wife againe , let her be a witch , and may I burn with her for company . Gouernour , thou art out of countenance , and thou too honest Humfrey , me thinkes . Come beare vp . I forgiue . T was your errors , not malice .  It s●ll not need good Humfrey . 