 There 's newes too much within ,  For any home-bred Christian understanding .  He is in travaile Sir .  Yes , pray Doctor Hughball  Play the Man-midwife , and deliver him  Of his huge Timpany of newes ; of Monsters ,  Pigmies , and Gyants , Apes , and Elephants ,  Griffons , and Crocadiles ; men upon women ,  And women upon men ; the strangest doings  As farre beyond all Christendome , as t is to 't .  Beyond the Moone and Starres I think ,  Or mount in Cornwall either .  He talks much of the Kingdome of Cathaya ,  Of one great Caan , and goodman Prester Iohn ,  ( What e're they be ) and sayes that Caan 's a Clowne  Vnto the Iohn he speaks of . And that Iohn  Dwels up almost at Paradice : But sure his mind  Is in a wildernesse : For there he sayes  Are Geese that have two heads a peece , and Hens  That beare more wooll upon their backs than sheep .  And men with heads like hounds .  You 'll finde enough within I warrant yee .  Ex. 3.    And here comes the poore mad gentlemans wife ,  Ent. Mar.    Almost as mad as he : she haunts me all  About the house to impart something to me :  Poore heart I gesse her griefe , and pitty her .  To keepe a Maiden-head three yeares after Marriage ,  Vnder wed-locke and key , insufferable ! monstrous ,  It turnes into a wolfe within the flesh ,  Not to be fed with Chickens , and tame Pigeons .  J could wish maids be warn'd by 't , not to marry  Before they have wit to lose their Maiden-heads ,  For feare they match with men whose wits are past it .  What a sad looke , and what a sigh was there ?  Sweet Mistris Ioylesse , how is 't with you now ?  Now she is on it . Three yeares forsooth .  If you 'll be merry .  What ayles she trow ?  Is that a laughing matter ?  Nay I have had two children .  But I am o' the surer side , I am sure  I groan'd for mine and bore 'hem . when at best ,  He but beleeves he got 'hem .  Now you speake reason , and t is nothing but  Your husbands madnesse that would put that dreame  Into you .  Lasse poore foole .  Foole did I say ?  She is a witch I thinke : why not my husband ,  Pray can you charge me with another man ?  Was ever  Such a poore peece of innocence , three yeeres married ?  Does not your husband use to lye with you ?  Your countrey folkes should have done well to ha' sent  Some newes by you , but I trust none told you there ,  We use to leave our fooles to lye with mad-men .  No not I  But rather pitty your simplicity .  Come I le take charge and care of you .  And wage my skill , against my doctors art ,  Sooner to ease you of these dangerous fits ,  Then he shall rectifie your husbands wits .  Ex.    Time was your honour us'd  Me strangely too , as you 'll doe these I doubt not .  T is my Lords Reader , and as good a lad  Out of his function , as I would desire  To mixe withall in civill conversation .  Indeed but you must stay ; and see the play .  You 'll see anon . O now the Actors enter .  Flourish .   Precious ! what doe you meane ?  Pray keepe your seat : you 'll put the players out .  Enough , enough sweet-heart .  No , no , sit downe .  And I le perform 't I warrant you my Lord .  Ex. Ba. Mar.    I le warrant you he shall fulfill your wishes .  There 's a new way indeed to chose a husband !  Yet t were a good one to barre foole getting .  Good gentleman ! he is at his prayers now ,  For his mad sonnes good night-worke with his bride .  Well fare your heart Sir ; you have pray'd to purpose ;  But not all night I hope . Yet sure he has ,  He looks so wild for lacke of sleepe . Y' are happy sir .  Your prayers are heard , no doubt , for I 'm perswaded  You have a childe got you to night .  I cannot say how farre .  Not fathome deepe I thinke . But to the scantling  Of a Child-getting , I dare well imagine .  For which , as you have pray'd , forget not sir  To thanke the Lord o th' house .  I should goe tell my Lord  The newes : he longs to know how things doe passe .  Sure his joy  Has madded him : Here 's more worke for the Doctor .  What meane you with that Dagger ?  Their Bawd ?  I trust she is no Bawd , that sees , and helpes  ( If need require ) an ignorant lawfull paire  To doe their best .  These old folkes love to heare .  I le tell you sir — and yet I will not neither .  Sir , they went to bed .  On ? they were off sir yet ;  And yet a good while after . They were both  So simple , that they knew not what , not how .  For she 's sir , a pure maid .  I le speake no more , lesse you can looke more tamely .  Ah —  I , I le be sworne I meant , and said so too ?  What an old desperate man is this , to make  Away your selfe for feare of being a Cuckold !  If every man that is , or that but knowes  Himselfe to be o th' order , should doe so ,  How many desolate widowes would here be ,  They are not all of that minde . Here 's my husband .  Looke well . How thinkst thou Tony ?  Hast not thou neither slept to night ?  You know I was appoynted to sit up .  Why how now Tony ?  You need not : for  If I were now to dye on 't , nor the Doctor ,  Nor I came in a bed to night : I meane  Within a bed .  What 's that thou carriest Tony ?  A shape ? what shape I prethee Tony ?  Will here be Dancing Tony ?  O Tony .  I did not see thee act i th' Play .  What in those Breeches ?  Dumbe Speaker ! that 's a Bull . Thou wert the Bull  Then , in the Play . Would I had seene thee rore .  Well Tony , I will see thee in this thing .  And t is a pretty thing .  O Tony come , I long to be at that .  Exeunt .   Truly my Lord , my husband has tane bread  And drunke upon 't , that under heaven he thinkes ,  You were the meanes to make me an honest woman ,  Or ( at the least ) him a contented man .  Yes , I beleeve you have done  And if your husband , Lady , be cur'd , as he should be ;  And as all foolish jealous husbands ought to be ,  I know what was done first , if my Lord tooke  That course with you as me —  My Lord to tell you , ( As the Doctor tels me )  The Bride and Bridegroome , Both , are comming on ,  The sweetliest to their wits againe .  Now you are a happy man sir ; and I hope a quiet man .  Content ! So was my husband , when he knew  The worst he could by his wife . Now you le live quiet Lady .  I beg your Honours pardon .  And now I le tell you . Be it by skill or chance ,  Or both , was never such a Cure , as is  Vpon that couple : now they strive which most  Shall love the other .  Vp ! up , and ready to lye downe againe :  There is no ho with them ;  They have bin in th' Antipodes to some purpose ;  And , now , are risen , and return'd themselves :  He's her deare Per , and she is his sweet Mat .  His Kingship and her Queenship are forgotten .  And all their melancholly and his Travailes past ,  And but suppos'd their dreams .  Now sir , the Doctor , ( for he is become  An utter stranger to your sonne ; and so  Are all about em ) craves your presence ,  And such as he 's acquainted with .  Daughter ! that 's the true trick of all old whore-masters , to call their wenches daughters .  If I had beene a Gentle-woman borne ,  I should have bin your daughter too my Lord .  Neat city-wives flesh , yet may be as good ,  As your course countrey gentlewomans blood .  Exit Bar.    My husband presents jealousie in the black and yellow jaundied sute there , halfe like man , and tother halfe like woman with one horne , and asse-eare upon his head .  Are you there ?  Good Madam , pardon errors of my tongue . 