 SWeet wife content thy selfe .  If you could be content with all that I have , or all that I can doe , and expect no further , I then might hope to pacifie you .  Now 't is out ; zonnes what would you have me doe ? where 's the defect think you ? is it not probable that you may be defective as well as I ?  You will not be impudent ?  The matter is sir she will be content with nothing .  I am not jealous I .  The best is , the losse of your longings will not hurt you ; unlesse you were with child .  You must not long for every strange thing you see or heare of then .  Heyday ! so last frost she long'd to ride on one of the Dromedaries over the Thames , when great men were pleas'd to goe over it a foote .  What Doctor is he , a foole on horse-backe ?  And sure it is a rare commodity when a Knight is become a Broker for to cry it up so .  She 's gone , and now sir Hugh let me tell you , you have not dealt well with me , to put this fagary into her foolish fancy .  I you tell me so   I know something by your worship worth the price of a new Pillory .  I thinke we have ; and that you have some new device , some stratagem in hand now . Uds me , I now remember , is the party come to towne ?  And will he be made a gentleman ?  I warrant you , is he a trim youth ?  Then sure we will make mony of him .  Some great man sure that 's asham'd of his kindred : perhaps some Suburbe Justice , that sits o' the skirts o' the City , and lives by 't .  From some of his owne companions to cheate , you more himselfe .  Right , there 's halfe dispos'd of .  Doe you heare this ?  The season of the yeare serves most aptly too ,  Both for purging and bleeding :  Give your name into this booke sir .  Timothy Hoyden .  And all the Complements of an absolute gentleman .  Skin , 't is a hide sir .  I will sir .  But halfe pleas'd sweet-heart ?  Well , when we come at home Beck , I know what I know .  More longings yet ! now out of the unsearchable depth of womans imagination , what may it be ?  May I know it forsooth , tell it that you may have it .  If you dare tell it .  How , how !  Art thou a woman and speak this ?  Art thou so full of the Devill to flye out in this manner ?   Oh for a hell that has not a woman in 't ?  Is that his wife thinke you ?  She payes the reckoning it seems .  Would you wou'd long to be at home once .  Hey kicksie winsie winsie .  It seems you are not proscribed by the prophesie then ?  Sir , how auspiciously have I falne upon the knowledge of you by vertue of the same apprehension .  Oh you are pleas'd out of that noble worth which can convert all things to the forme and image of its owne perfection  to make your selfe glorious , with that which is miserably impoverish'd in it selfe .  This is the noblest of all humanity to peece up the defect of your friend with a glory of your owne .  Doe you note him yonder that past from you ?  The very scorne at Court ;  So empty , not one passable part about him .  A very tilting stocke for yong practisers to break their jests on .  'Sfoot where 's my wife then ?  O Sedana .  I pray gentlemen which way took she :  A Litter of one and twenty in her breech : High time to runne .  Her credit yet they may and mine .  Did you sir , did you ?  Yes Mistris Friswood , she is her Aunt sir .  Pray gentleman stay , for I suppose She 's here here 's number one and twenty ; & this is sure the litter .  By what Commission ought you to carry my wife in a Close stoole under my nose   I know the cloaths she weares , and I will see the party .  Gentlemen this is a man that lay in my house .  These are my goods he weares ; that was my mothers Gowne , and felloniously he weares it .  Has sir Hugh gin me the slip to finish his work in private ? it shall all out , I am resolv'd , though I bewray my selfe in 't : pray gentlemen assist me with this party to Mr. Justice Strikers , you say my wife is there .  And there I le take a course you shal smel knavery enough .  And have I found thee Beck in so good company ? 