 YOu will not assault me in mine owne house ? I hope you will not ; nor urge me beyond my patience with your borroughing attempts ! good sir Hugh Mony-lacks I hope you will not .  Private conference ! a new coyn'd word for borrowing of money ; I tell you , your very face , your countenance ( though it be gloss'd with Knight-hood ) lookes so borrowingly , that the best words you give me are as dreadfull as Stand and deliver , and there I thinke I was w' ye . I am plaine w' ye sir , old Will Striker I .  Your father ! no , I desire no such neare acquaintaince with you , good sir Hugh Mony-lacks : you are a Knight and a noble gentleman , I am but an Esquire and out of debt ; and there I think I was w' ye againe .  'T is true , I had the honour to be your Worships father in law when time was , that your Knight-hood married and Ladyfied a poore daughter of mine : but yet she had five thousand pounds in her purse if you please to remember it ; and as I remember you had then foureteene hundred a yeare : But where is it now ? and where is my daughter now ? poore abus'd Innocent ; your riotousnesse abroad , and her long night watches at home shortned her dayes , and cast her into her grave — And 't was not long before all your estate was buried too ; and there I was w' ye againe I take it : but that could not fetch her againe .  Nor mourn'd more justly , it is your onely wearing ; you have just none other : nor have had meanes to purchase better any time these seaven yeares as I take it . By which meanes you have got the name of the mourning Knight ; and there I am sure I was w' ye .  Even when you please , and whither you please good sir Hugh Mony-lacks : my house shall bee no enchanted Castle to detaine your Knight-errandship from your adventures . I hope  your errand hither was but for your dinner ; and so farre forth ( and especially at your going forth ) you are welcome . Your daughter I doe keepe , and will for her poore mothers sake ; ( that was my daughter ) peace be with her — she shall be no more a trouble to you ; nor be your child any longer : I have made her mine ; I will adopt her into mine owne name , and make her a Striker ; she shall be no more a Mony-lacke , and if shee please me well in matching with a husband , I know what I will doe for her .  Doe you thanke me sir , I assure you you neede not ; for I meane so to order her estate , and bind it up in that trust that you shall never finger a farthing on 't : am I w' ye sir ?  Call her your child agen , or let mee but heare that you suffer her to aske you a bare blessing , I le send her after you upon adventures sir Knight : and who shall give a portion with her then ? or what can she hope from a father that groanes under the weight of a Knight-hood for want of meanes to support it ?  You may , you may ; you have a wit sir Hugh , and a projective one ; what , have you some new project a foot now , to out-goe that of the Hand-barrowes ? what call you 'em the Sedams ? oh cry you mercy , cry you mercy ; I heard you had put in for a share at the Asparagus Garden : or that at least you have a Pension thence ; to be their Gather guest and bring 'em custome , and that you play the fly of the new Inne-there ; and sip with all companies : am I w' ye there sir ?  In good time sir .  How 's this ?  But one that I know , the rascall my neighbour Touchwood .  How 's that ?  Can this be true ?  To be rid of you take it .  Is the Divell become a match-broker ? what , who within there : what ?  Annabell ? what Friswood ?  Are you so forsooth ? but where 's your Mistris forsooth ?  Where is your Mrs. I say ?  What other Mrs. hast thou but the Divells Dam her selfe , your old Mrs. ? and her I aske not for ; good Mrs. Flibber de'Jibb with the French fly-flap o' your coxecombe .  I aske for Annabell .  Where 's Annabell I say ? fetch her me quickly , least I bast her out of your old Whit-leather hide .  And is not he gone now forsooth ? why call you her not ?  I never knew thee a Witch till now .  Marry did he ; and I will know the truth .  Dar'st thou laugh at me ?  Is it but so ?  I , thou wast a handsome young wench then ; now thou art old .  What in thy fooleries now ?  Come , come ; thou art not old .  Enough , enough ; Fid . I beleeve there is no such matter .  I doe , I doe ; I prethee good Fid be quiet , it was a witty tricke of thee to mocke the poore Knight withall : but a poxe on him , he cost me a peece for his newes ; there 's another for thee : but the best is he hath tyed himselfe by it , never to trouble mee more ; I have that into my bargaine .  Not so Fid , not so : but looke to my Girle , and thus farre marke me . If ever I find that young Touchwood , the sonne of that miscreant , whose hatred I would not lose for all the good neighbor-hood in the Parish ; if ever J say , he and your charge doe but looke upon one another , I le turne her and you both out o' doores : there J will be w' ye , looke to 't .  Looke to 't J say , J must abroad , my anger is not over yet : I would I could meete my adversary to scold it out ; I shall bee sicke else .  I was too blame  To give it so much credit at the first ,  As to be troubled at it .  That he , the sonne of my despight and scorne ,  Should gaine of Fate a lot to see my Neece ,  Much lesse a face to aske her for his wife .  Yet the vexation that I was but told so ,  Lyes gnawing in my stomacke , that untill  I vomit it upon that Dung-hill wretch ;  I cannot eate nor sleepe to doe me good .  And I thanke Chance he 's here .  Hum , hum , hum , humh .  Sirrah , sirrah , how dar'st thou keepe a sonne that dares but looke upon my Neece ? there I am we 'yee sir .  Impudent villaine , I have heard he has seene her .  Yes Malipert Jack , I have heard that he has seene her , but better hadst thou pist him gainst the wall , then hee presume to love her : and there I am we 'yee sir .  Darst thou speak so , thou old Reprobate .  Hugh , hugh , hugh .  Oh thou hel-bred Rascall thou ; hugh , hugh ,  Hugh , hugh .  And hang thy selfe , I care not what thou know'st , yet thus farre take me we 'yee sir .  Huh , huh — hum ! so he 's gon , the villain 's gone in hope that he has kild me , when my comfort is he has recover'd mee :  I was heart-sicke with a conceit which lay so mingled with my  Fleagme that I had perished , if I had not broke it , and made me  spit it out ; hemh , 't is gone , and I le home merrily .  I would not that he should know the good he has done me  For halfe my estate ; nor would I be at peace with him  To save it all : His malice works upon me ,  Past all the drugs and all the Doctors Counsells ,  That ere I cop'd with : he has beene my vexation  These thirty yeares ; nor have I had another  Ere since my wife dy'd ; if the Rascall knew 't ,  He would be friends , and I were instantly  But a dead man , I could not get another  To anger me so handsomly .  And merrily too Fid . Hemh light at heart ,  I met with my Physitian , Dog-leech , Touchwood ;  And clear'd my stomacke , and now I am light at heart .  And thou shalt heare on 't Fid anon perhaps .  Where 's my Neece ?  How does she , ha ?  Ha! how 's that ?  Out with it then .  He has not laine with her , has he ?  I hope he has not lipt her so :  Prethee what canst thou meane ?  What dost thou meane now , I have asked thee twice .  T was this the villaine hammer'd on to day ,  When he spoke mystically , doubtfull words ,  Reflecting on this mischievous sence : Hell , hell , hell .  You counsell very well ;  But were you privy in their loves affaire ?  I know no course for her and you but one ,  Young whore and bawd , and that is instantly  To pack you out of doores to seek your living ,  And there I will be we 'yee .  Sprecious dost thou must me in mine owne house ?  This is lusty .  Hold your peace .  You 'll hold your peace ?  Yet hold thy peace .  I never was so mated , so astonished .  Thou art not desperate ! wilt thou shame thy selfe ?  Oh I am sicke .  Sicke , sicke at heart ; let me be had to bed .  Huh , huh , huh ,  Out snarling Hell-hound my curse upon thee , and thy cursed sonne that has undone my Neece and mee : curse upon curse light on yee .  Huh , huh , huh : Villaine thou knowst what he has done ; huh , huh .  Huh , huh , huh .  In this extremity I doe entreat you that they may marry .  Huh , huh huh .  Huh , huh , huh .  Vgh , ugh , no Fid ugh hem ! he has cur'd me :  I am light at heart agen : he has cur'd me ;  He has play'd the good Physitian 'gainst his will ;  And a halter be his fee for 't .  Ah hem ! I am light at heart agen .  Though she prove bastard-bellyed , I will owne her ,  Cherish , maintaine , and keepe her from thy sonne .  Keep her child too .  I le hold 'hem more legitimate than thy brood .  For thou , thy sonne , thy house is all a Bastard .  Beare witnesse there , he saies he will fire my house .  Tis' petty treason ; I le be wi'yee there sir .  I le lay as many actions on thee as thou hast bones in that Swines foote of thine .  Blood-sucker thou ly'st .  Slave they are thine , brought in to spoyle and rob mee ; I know 'hem not .  And why you my Nephew sir ?  What new afflictions hourely find me out ?  Sir , I le have better testimony then your owne ;  T is true I lost a sister ; but till you  Bring stronger proofe she was your mother sir ,  Your Clowneship must not Vncle me ; am I we'you sir ?  Kings Crownes have beene pretended to by' impostures ;  And knavery is as rife in Russet Wooll ,  As in the prowdest purple ; get you gone ,  There I am we'you directly .  Farewell sir , I doe beginne to think there 's something in 't .  I will not think so , no he was set on  By some of my maligners to abuse me ;  It had beene good to ha laid him by the heeles :  But let him goe ; call downe my Neece out of  The melancholy mist she 's chambred in ,  Ex. Fris.    All makes for her ; their vexing me , restores  Her to my love againe ; and reason good ;  She 's mine owne naturall Neece : and though  She has lost the husband , and the name she sought ,  Yet she appeares a Striker ; and I will cherish her .  Come you shal grieve no longer , I am friends wi'yee :  Stand up , stand up I say , and look up too ,  Off with this mourning veile , and dry those teares :  I have consider'd that right Noble Parents  Have pardon'd in their Children as great faults ;  But let it bee your warning , not your licence .  No more : you shall  No longer live reclus'd in wilfull darknesse ;  Enjoy your former liberty ; see , and be seene :  And ( as you weigh my pardon and my love )  Let not your blemish dwell upon your face ;  Nor any argument of griefe , or shame  Be legible there , to the most curious eye :  But let your cheek be chearefull , and your brow  Crown'd with as great a confidence , as may  Comply with Virgin Modesty : and that  Adde to your beauty with full strength of Art ,  Beyond the eye to take a lovers heart .  If I make  Choise of a husband for you then , you 'le take him .  A good girle .  Oh Sir Arnold Cautious : did you tell him I was o' the mending hand .  Give me my Gowne and Cap though , and set mee charily in my sickly chaire ; his letter is a treaty of a match betwixt his Nephew and my Neece : goe fetch him up .  In Neece , and be not seene untill I call you : untill you heare me call you , doe you heare ?  Could I but catch this Cautious coxecombe Knight now — I le put faire for 't .  Why reach you not a Chaire ? I hope sir Arnold  You 'll pardon the necessity of my rudenesse :  I cannot rise , nor stoope , to you , uh , uh , uh .  Yes sir , goe forth ; but be not farre I pray you .  Ex. Fris.    I have heard your Nephew is a wilde yong man .  Oh no dissembling sir ; you know he is wilde ,  And suffers under your displeasure for 't : uh , uh , uh .  Speake to the purpose ; pray what 's his estate ?  Hopefull , and handsome ! uh , uh , uh .  And she has choise enough  Of greater matches : could I get her  Into a marriage vaine , but she 'll not look  Upon a man not she ; but lives retir'd  Here in my house , and is a carefull Nurse :  She 's fitter sir to be an old mans Nurse ,  Then any young mans bride : uh , uh , uh , uh .  Not without my consent I warrant you ;  Shee 's nearer to a mother than a maid .  I tell you truth sir , and you know deceipt  Becomes not dying men : uh , uh , uh . For vertue and obedience  She 's fitter for your selfe then for your Nephew :  But to the poynt , a hundred pound a yeare  You say he has , and hopes and handsomnesse ,  Which may acquire , with your assurance of  So much for joynture — Yes , a thousand pound  In portion with her : but sir let me tell you ,  I 'de rather give sixe thousand unto one  Of mine owne choise ; which she will not refuse ,  If I but say this is the man , and take him .  At hand : she will not out of my presence sir ,  Nor ever was by man , not since the clocke  Of her Virginity struck eleven , not she ,  Except at doore or window , as men passe :  And so perhaps your Nephew may have seene her .  I tell you true ;  Deceit you know becomes not dying men : uh , uh , uh .  And therefore harke you sir , I have a purpose ,  ( That if she take the man whom I will chuse )  To make her my sole heire ; provided that  She match before I dye : uh , uh , I cannot last .  Friswood — why Friswood .  No sir , I call my maid .  A maid upon my vertue : and I feare  That her frigidity has mortifi'd my Neece :  Deceipt becomes not dying men you know  Friswood I say , I bad her not be farre :  I dare not straine my selfe to call her lowder .  Hold sir , hold , pray use this whistle for me ,  I dare not straine my selfe to winde it I ,  The Doctors tell me it will spend my spirits ,  Caut . whistles .   So , so , enough sir — Fie , fie upon you :  Goe call my Neece , uh , uh .  Uh — alas I cannot last — why comes she not ?  There was your fault , then I must call my selfe .  Why Anna-bell , ah , ah , ah , An-na-bell .  You shall heare him .  Sir , let me tell you , I thinke well of you , uh , uh ,  Deceipt becomes not dying men you know ,  Shee would make ee'ne too good a wife for you :  For I have heard sir of your disposition ,  Never to marry without best assurance ,  First , of Virginity , and then of Chastity ,  In her that you would chuse ; and let me tell you , uh , uh ,  I know not where you can so well be fitted :  She 's right , uh , uh , if you dare take a weak mans word ,  Deceipt would ill become me , uh , uh .  Vh , uh , uh , uh — O lay me in my bed :  You need not leave me yet sir .  What 's the Bride ready ?  Go call her down .  When she has done , then hasten her away .  Doe you now conclude Sir Arnold you are happy ?  He come ? I fear a mischief .  Who sent you hither , I sent not for you now sir :  And there I am wi' yee sir .  Hold your peace .  Can you say so ?  You will not speak thus .  Will you undoe your daughter ?  The beggarly Knight is desperate ,  And should he out with it , my shame were endlesse :  This is the way or none to stop his mouth :  T is but a money matter ; stay a little   Be not a Mad-man here , here 's forty peeces ,  I know you use to strike for smaller summes :  But take it for your silence , and withall  My constant love , and my continuall friendship .  What does he meane tro ?  Oh devillish reprobate .  Here 's an impudent villaine .  I dare not crosse this devill , I must fetch 'hem .  Here sir .  Now the fiend stretch thee — you may take my word .  How now , what mates breake in upon us here ?  It is some weighty matter sure then .  But not to trouble your sconce with too much businesse  At once , pursue your owne , we will attend a while .  What 's the meaning of it ?  Pray sir doe your office , her conceit  We will know afterward .  I am undone , my house disgrac'd for ever .  Oh my heart .  Vh , uh , uh , uh .  Vh , uh , uh .  Vh , uh , uh .  A hem , a hem , I will out-live you both :  This dayes vexation is enough for a life time .  Would it might prove so , that I had yet a Nephew ,  For now my Neece is lost .  You will not tell it now ?  How can you say so ?  On that condition I le give her all the worldly good I have .  Le ts see your token Sir .  Will you bestow some of it upon me .  Pray begin .  Enough , enough , you have sayd very well .  You put me wel in mind though , here 's one , that ere the Parson and we part , I le make an honest woman .  Our quarrell in this peece of folly ends .  Le ts in , and end all differences in wine . 