 With me gentlemen ?  Oh you are most friendly welcome good Mr. Gilbert Gilawire , and Mr. Walter Chamlet I take yee to be .  Your fathers both were my good neighbours indeed ; worthy and well reputed members of the City while they lived : but that may be read upon the Hospitall walls , and gates ; it is enough for me to say they lov'd me : Sanson Touchwood ! and I were a wretch if I should not honour their memory in their happy succession : Agen gentlemen you are welcome .  True , true , ever at odds : They were the common talke of the towne for a paire of wranglers ; still at strife for one trifle or other : they were at law logger-heads together , in one match that held 'em tugging tone the tother by the purse-strings a matter of nine yeares , and all for a matter of nothing . They cours'd one another from Court to Court , and through every Court Temporall and Spirituall ; and held one an other play till they lost a thousand pound a man to the Lawyers , and till it was very sufficiently ad judged that your father was one foole , and your father was another foole . And so againe gentlemen you are welcome : now your businesse .  Heaven forbid else .  To the poynt good gentlemen , yet you are welcome .  Ha ?  Are you there with me ?  I le hold you an hundred pounds o' that .  And your comming is to perswade that , is it not ? if it be so , speake ; deale plainely with me gentlemen , whilst yet you are welcome .  You are not welcome .  Againe you are not welcome .  Your fathers were a couple of doting fooles , and you a paire of sawcy knaves ; now you are not welcome : and more then so , get you out of my doores .  My sonne ? no sonne of mine , I have cast him off already for casting an eye upon the daughter of mine enemy : let him goe , let him packe ; let him perish : he comes not within these doores , and you , that are his fine spoken spokes-men , get you off o' my ground I charge you .  Indeffinitely not sir , untill hee does not onely renounce all interest in the love of that baggage ; but doe some extraordinary mischiefe in that family to right me for the trespasse hee has  done ; and so win my good opinion , till which bee done a daily curse of mine hee shall not misse ; and so you may informe him .  BVt how can you assure me gentlemen that this is true ?  This is a mischiefe with a witnesse to it :  He has done it home it seems .  You may be pleas'd to call him .  Exit Wat.    I would now put on anger , but I feare  My inward joy 's too great , to be dissembled :  Now for a rigid brow that might enable  A man to stand competitor for the seate  Of austere justice — Are you come to boast  Enter Sam , Wat.    The bravery of your fact , with a dissembled  Shew of obedience ; as if you had merited  Forgivenesse and a blessing ; when my shame  For thy lewd action makes me turne and hide  My face — for feare my laughter be descry'd .  I have heard sir of your workmanship ; but may  A man receive it on your word for truth ?  I meane you shall out o' the noyse on 't presently :  So — there 's a hundred peeces , get you gone ;  Provide you for a journey into France ,  Beare your selfe well , and looke you come not home  A verier Coxecombe than you went abroad :  Pray weare no falling bands and cuffes above  The price of suits and cloaks , least you become  The better halfe undone in about at Buffets .  Amen .  My blessing be upon thee ,  Goe get thee gone , my tendernesse will shew  It selfe too womanish else .  Thank yee gentlemen :  Be but my sonne , thou shalt not want a father ,  Though somebody must seeke one : ha , ha , ha —  I de give another hundred Peeces now  With all my heart , that I might be untongue-ty'd ,  And triumph o're my adversary now ,  And dash this businesse in his angry teeth :  Strike Strikers teeth out with his owne abuse :  Perhaps he knows 't already , if he does ;  I may take notice , and make bold to jeere him :  This is his usuall walke .  'T is the Rascall .  Perhaps he 's casting of his will .  He comes , and so have at him .  And ha , ha , ha to thee old puppy .  Sirrah , and sirrah to thy wither'd jawes , and down that wrinkled throat of thine : how dar'st thou think a sonne of mine dares for displeasing me , look but with foule contempt upon thy loathed issue ?  Has he but seene her ? ha , ha , ha , I feare I shall out with it : I would not be forsworne : I le keep 't in if I can .  Hast thou but heard he has seene her : I tell thee thou old booby thou ; if he had seen , felt , heard , and understood her : nay had he got her with child , and then left her , he were my sonne , and I would cherish him .  Thou dost not heare me say it is so , though J could wish it were with all my heart , because I thinke it would breake thine .  I hope I shall keepe it within the compasse of mine oath ; yet there was a touch for him .  So , so , up with it , Lungs , Lights , Liver , and all : choake up in a churles name .  I have put him into these fits forty times at least , and not without hope it will thratle him at last — — if you do break a gut , or a rib or two , with straining , a rope will be your onely remedy : and so I leave you : by the way you have not heard mee say that I know any thing by your Neece : But what I know I le keep to my selfe .  Not a step , unlesse I were sure I were going to the devill , huh , huh : no sir , you shall not trip me : you shall not fetch it out of me : tush , my sonne 's my sonne , and keep your neece to yourselfe , huh , and if she has any thing of his you may keep that too huh ; and so choake up againe with all my heart , and much good doe it you .  A stinking one it is I am sure : that nasty carrion thy Mr. is i' my nose already , I think I were best goe no further .  But is he dead already , ha ?  The worse luck ; and how does your Mistris ? ha , ha , ha , well well I say nothing .  Not for her Grandsire , is she : if the worst dogge hee keeps howle for him , I le worry sheepe with mine owne teeth , and trusse for him ; but why is she sad , prethee tel me ? ha ha , ha .  I would now give her a new Gowne , to tell me the true cause that I might save mine oath , and rore out my rejoycings : t was a devillish tricke of the Rascalls to bind me by oath never to speake of it , but to those that should tell me of it first . I have such a coyle to keep it in now : Prethee tell me , what has the old Traveller , that is now bound for the Low Countries , gi'n thy Mrs. in his will , canst tell ?  That 's my boy , there boy , there , that was a home blow .  No , no , no , not I , not I ; s'bones I bit my tongue too hard .  The jade jeeres me , I le stay no longer i' the house .  I confesse 't was my desire to see that dying that brought me hither : where is he ? I le hold my nose , and have at him .  Friends ? I le rather goe with him , and fight it out by the way .  What up and in a Chaire ?  Then he may live to be hanged yet , for ought I see .  You are quite besides the book sir Domine , I have no friends in hell to send to by him : no sir , I come to see him dye , as he liv'd a hatefull miscreant .  Doe I come to humour him , or you , or my selfe , thinke you : you that take upon you , and doe rather goe about to sooth him up in his sicknesse , then to fright him out of his paine , rather encourage him to live then rid the world of him , and his abhominations .  But he has playd many vilde and beastly parts in it , let him goe , I would see his last Exit , and hisse him out of it ; harke , the Ravens cry porke for him , and yet he dyes not .  My heart 's not hard enough to breake his , I would it were : where 's your kinde hearted Mistris , fetch her , and trye what she can doe .  So , so , so , so it workes , it workes .  How heartily he prayes ; sure he is neare his end .  My sonne undone thy Neece : has he not done her think'st thou ? ha , ha , ha .  I know not whether I know or no ; tell me , and I le tell thee .  Speake English , has he laine with her ?  Ha , ha , ha .  Depusilated , ha , ha , ha .  Will you direct  Your Divine Rhetoricke there to him ; and winne him  But to entreat me in this case , and try  What I will say to 't .  I have my ends upon thee ; quickly dye ,  And take thine owne , thy base submission  Has rendred thee more odious , more loathsome  To me than all thy former villanies .  And harke thee ere thou dyest , for now th' art going :  Before my sonne shall wed that whore thy Neece ,  She shall bring all the hands of all the whore-masters  In City , Court , and Kingdome , ( black Coats , and all )  I will spare none ) unto a faire Certificate  That she is cleare of all men but my sonne ,  Nay more :  That she is cleare of him too ; and that hee  Has never top'd her in the way we treat of ,  Before he wed her : for my sonne shall not ride  In his old boots upon his wedding night :  So , now dye and sinke  Into thy grave , to rid us of thy stinke .  The Devill I have , and his Dam it shall .  O damn'd old counterfeit .  Oh I could teare that tongue out .  Doe , and her next , and fill thy house with bastards .  Beare witnesse , he calls my house a Bastard .  I le make thy house to smoak for 't .  And hang thy selfe old scare Crow .  Out Witch .  Thou laidst this plot to murther me , thou man-killer .  Ha you your Tennants , your Clownes here brought in to butcher me ?  Had you your ambuscado for me ?  Your Vncle , oh brave .  Well sir , I le goe and leave you to your Vncle : rejoyce  sir with your kind red : I hope you wil have more shortly , if your Neece prove fruitful : Come Master Paneridge , will you goe ?  Tarry , tarry ; as sure as a Club , this Clowne is sent for out of the Country , to soder up his crack'd Neece in Matrimony , and therefore calls him Vncle ; I could spoyle the Match , but by my oath I dare not ; and therefore Clowne take thy course : come let us goe Mr. Pancridge   A sweet lick he has indeed if he knew all .  If he did , I know what I know ; good oath let me not lose thy vertue .  Ha , ha , ha ; but what if her first child prove illegitimate ?  Yes , and spoken too , if I durst ; but good oath let mee not lose thy vertue .  But he 's well recover'd you say .  Then hang him , he 'll never dye ; I am a fear'd I must be faine to give him over , I shall never vexe him to death : no , no , I shall never do 't .  Did he say so ? I le teare this match in peeces presently : and see how that will worke on him ; I le do 't , what 's an oath to me , in respect of sending him to the Devill , I le do 't .  Vmh .  Vmh .  Humh .  Vmh — what a world of villany lies in the jobber noule of a Lawyer .  Right learned in the Law , and my sons friend Mr. Trampler , Mr. Ambodexter Trampler , you are a most notorious knave , & and you shall heare on 't o'both sides , as you take fees .  I know my course ; either I will crack the heart-strings of Striker , in crossing this match , with the crack'd credit of his Neece , or else I will be friends with him , and that will kill him out right : But my oath still troubles me — Oh gentlemen you are welcome .  Not I , he lacks no money yet it seems :  Young Travellers make no other use of their fathers .  What of sir Cautious being catcht , the wise and wary gentleman , your Vncle , that would not beleeve there could be a marriagable maid , thogh she were justified by a jury of Midwifes , and therefore purpos'd to have dy'd a Batchelour : that he should now bee catch'd with a pipt Nut-shell , and a Maggot in 't .  But I wil crosse it and their knaveries , what ere they are .  What to marry a wench ?  Pray let me use my Christian Liberty , my Conscience pricks me to 't , it must be done .  Now what say you sir ?  Goe fetch 'hem in , and make the warrant : ha , ha , ha : Gentlemen will you heare a complaint my man tells mee of certaine Clownes that desire my warrant to apprehend for notorious Cheaters , whom doe you thinke ?  Even Sir Hugh Money-lacks , the mourning Knight , and some of his associats .  What is it you sir , Mr. Strikers Nephew , as I take it , you cald his great worships Vncle lately as I take it , and did your best to tore me out of his house .  And doe you bring your complaints to me sir , ha ?  You shal , but first tell me , how came it that you cald that Striker uncle .  His Sisters sonne ?  How now my Masters : sure fellow thou art mistaken .  Bring out your brother : why what has your brother done ?  Doe you know the meaning of any of this gentlemen ?  I know not what to make o'th is but sure there 's something in 't : And for these gentlemen I le see them forth-comming .  And thither will I instantly .  You shall , come on your way , come gentlemen .  Till they come to the word , for better , for worse  I will not touch at it .  I come not as a guest sir , or spectator  To your great wedding , but o' the Kings affaires ;  In which I must crave your assistance sir ;  Deny 't me , or my entrance , if you dare .  So it is sir ,  What 's he ?  And you 'll stand to this , that your lost brother  Was Strikers Sister Audreyes sonne .  Then how camst thou to know it ?  Wel , hold thy peace , t is an absolute wonder ! Now to the wedding   A solemne shew , and suiting well the Scene !  She seems round bellied , and you marke it too .  I le lay my life she quickens now with child .  Ha , ha , ha .  He knew 't before hand , now I may declar 't ,  Speake o' thy Conscience , did it not ?  Oh the hangman .  This was a sure way now Sir Cautious ,  To marry a maid , there 's one i' the mothers belly .  Cheare up , cheare up , I may be friends wi'yee now :  Here 's one has cause , and knowes the way to vexe yee ,  To preserve life in you as well as I .  Now let me talke wi'yee , and come you hither sir .  T is all as I have told you , and without question ,  The man in question is your sisters sonne .  Here 's one shall find him out : or stretch a neck for 't .  Sir Hugh you are charg'd for making of a gentleman .  And more then so , for making him away .  Your patience yet a while : now gentlemen all ,  Sir Cautious , and the rest , pray heare a story :  I have bin often urg'd to yield the cause  Of the long quarrell twixt this man and me :  Thirty yeares growth it has , he never durst  Reveale the reason ; I being sullen would not .  Indeed I will :  He had a sister ( peace to her memory )  That in my youth I lov'd , shee me so much ,  That we concluded , we were man and wife ;  And dread lesse of all marriage lets , we did  Anticipate the pleasures of the bed .  Nay it shall out ; briefly , she prov'd with child :  This covetous man then greedy of her portion ,  ( Of which for the most part he was possest )  Forces her with her shame to leave his house .  She makes her moane to me , I then ( which since  I have with teares a thousand times repented )  Against my heart stood off , in hope to winne  Her Dowry from him : when she gentle soule  ( Whom I must now bewaile ) when she I say ,  Not knowing my reserv'd intent , from him and me ,  From friends , and all the world , for ought we knew ,  Suddainly slipt away : after five yeares  I tooke another wife , by whom I had  The sonne , that has done that the woman sayes :  But where I left , if this mans tale be true ,  She had a sonne , whom I demaund of you .  Pray em in , le ts see him .  Hee shall not have her .  My son shall make his fault good , and restore her honor to her if he lives , in meed for your faire sisters wrong and my misdeede , my son shall marry her ; provided that he take her in his Conscience unstain'd by any other man .  My sonne !  You are mine owne ; welcome into my bosome .  This is a jewell that I gave my Awdrey .  Yes , I do note him .  A very Westerne Southsayer , thou art mine owne .  Nay there you went too farre , this is his Neece , and my daughter now .  And for your part sir Hugh , you shall make satisfaction , and bring in your Confederates .  What you cannot shall be remitted , we have all our faults .  This yonker I le take care for ,  And make him a new gentleman by new breeding ,  Without the Dyet , bathing , purge , or bleeding .  He parted us , and he has made us friends . 