 You cannot now but receive  Your sonne into your favour , that did urge him  To doe some outrage , some villanous shame or mischiefe  Vpon that Family as he would shunne your curse .  We 'll helpe to set you forward .  And it shall take , ne're feare it Sam .  Nay Prince and Princesse of the Province of Asparagus .  Yes , we expect some gentlemen .  And a dish of your Sparagus .  I , because we had no wenches we must have no chamber-roome , for feare she disappoynt some that may bring 'hem .  Some good stuffe perhaps .  'T is enough for them to weed their garden , not their guests : O here comes our collation .  Goe , we 'll call when we want attendance .  We want Sir Hugh Mony-lacke here to discourse the vertues of this precious plant Asparagus , and what wonders it hath wrought in Burgundy , Almaino , Italy , and Languedoc before the herborists had found the skill to plant it here .  Who mine Vncle , Sir Arnold Cautious ; he 'll come , ne're doubt him ; he seldom misses a day to pry and piere upon the beauties that come to walke here .  This is still mine Vncle .  Feare not the plot , as we have cast it , nor the performance in the Comedy , though against mine owne Naturall Vncle .  He 's somewhat too yong to act a rorer : but what lads have we seene passe for souldiers ?  At his owne cost he meanes .  For my private recreation sir .  My blood must not endure it .  The wrong is chiefely mine ; yet you adde to it  By hindring my just vengeance .  My next sight of thee is thy death :  I feare you are hurt sir ; are you , pray sir tell me ?  But good sir are you not hurt ? if you bleed , I bleed with you .  How am I bound to you !  For a Wife you shall sir .  Here we are sir , and have seene part of your practice , your Courtly exercise .  Nay what a wretch were you , if you should crosse your daughter in such a fortune ?  I he 's safe enough .  How now ; what 's he ?  Ha you heard sir of your sonne yet ?  Sure he was strangely wrought to 't .  I hope you will not crosse mine uncle in such a fortune tho .  No , so much wealth sir .  We could not bee too sure though : wee are now sure enough , that our disswasions will spur him on the faster .  All the danger is , that Sir Hugh wil be with mine Uncle too soon , & prevent the match before he be too deep ingag'd in 't .  I know none I hope .  We stept in but by chance , & such a youth we found there , & there we left him in your and their hands , that had the managing of him .  We thanke you sir .  T is not all finish'd yet sir .  All in good time : the Bride is comming now .  You and your brother Poet are grown friends I see .  I cannot with my reputation now :  But I will doe my best to worke a friend to 't .  He knowes his son I feare .  The plot is finish'd : now thanks for your thousand pound sir . 