 Is sir Phillip Lucklesse i' the house still sir ?  Are you mad , or are you drunke sir ?  Nay then sir , though your Master be allowd to measure his manners , by his pleasure , here , on his owne yard , I le bee bold to pull you out on 't by the eares , and beat you into better fashion .  Indeed ?  What as I did now ? by the eares ? Are you come to your selfe enough yet ? or shall I helpe you further sir ?  A very strange disease ! How might you get it ?  Onely to speake with him from the Gentlewoman was here eene now .  I shall be your seruant .  And you my boldnesse .  What a Trim-tram trick is this ? the Master and the Man both brain-cras'd ; as the one vsed me , so did the other my Mistris . But I haue brought this into a kind of civill sense againe . Doe wee looke like Bawds ? There is some strange ground for this mistaking . I am sure shee has ever beene reputed a vertuous Gentlewoman ; and has now the governement , and bringing vp of a Virgin , of a most hopefull goodnesse . And I thinke , I know my selfe ; and dare beat any Man into a better construction of my quality .  Betweene foure , and fiue in the Pallace : but how shall I know him ? I neuer saw him .  I thanke you sir .  Mistris .  He stayes below , and wild me to come vp first , to to make his passage cleare and secure .  Rather feare I thinke : for he ask'd me if the house were not much haunted with Roarers or Swaggerers , poniards and pistols : whether there were not an Assurer for it as vpon the Exchange , as if his life were vpon hazard ? whether a Man might come on without losse of credit , and off without need of a Surgeon ? Much odd talke hee deliuers ; that in my conceit bewrayes , at once , both a lasciuious and cowardly disposition ; and vpon my vnderstanding , cannot bee so generous , or nobly spirited , as hee is receiued . Doe what you will .  Sir , will you speake to my Mistris ? The man is transported sure !  Mistris , there 's a Gentleman , one Master Tridewell , that sayes he is sir Phillips Kinseman , will by all meanes speak with him .  Onely hers vpon my sincerity sir .  Sir , for that my Mistris craues your Pardon . T is not her neglect , that workes vpon your patience ; But the necessity to rid a troublesome Lord or two out of the house , before the Party can appeare to you . But please you to obscure your selfe in this darke Closet , while I conuey them hence , and then , instantly , the top Gallant of pleasure shall crowne your Maine-mast , shee sayes .  T is no matter for any thing they did here sir , I warrant you . In quickly pray sir .  You cannot be safe else sir .  Anvile ? Pray sit let me try in ▪ blade on him too .  What shall I say or doe ? 〈…〉 hang'd directly .  By my Mistris sir , and fewe Gentlemen of her acquaintance , whose names I know not .  Pray let me see a little of this first .  Ha' you put her to 't sir .  Shee has done a cure on him . Hee spoke sense now . Alas Sir , that a faire hand should make such blots I what hand is it ? Secretar , Romane , Court , or Text ? I haue not seene the like : 't is all dominicall letters , red Inke . His face is like an Almanack of all Holy dayes .  Here 's one might serue for a whole History . The life and death o' ' Raw head , and Bloody bones .  How Sir ?  That 's about hand by your leaue .  Nor any body else I thinke .  I le throw him into the Dock rather then he shall succeede Iack O'Dandy . Come sir , all shal be wel again . Feare not .  Good sir beare your iniury with a Mans patience . Sir Paule will not be long absent . And till hee comes , my Mistris entreates you ( for your owne good ) to take his part vpon you , in giving entertainment to divers of his friends , who are invited hither to a Feast to night .  Much better meat sir . But here 's the strangenesse of it ; and the onely occasion that requires you ayde in the entertainment . This great Supper or feast ( as I may properly call it ) was appointed by Sir Poule himselfe , the money to buy the Provisioned deliver'd by his owne hand , to his own Servant ; the Guests of his owne election ; vet he , out of the multiplicity of crosse effaires , that haue happ'ned this day , hath quite forgot that there was any such preparation , or any such meeting intended , as appeares evidently by his absence . But my Mistris has got all the meate privately made ready at the next house , on purpose that he should should see nothing —  Onely salute 'hem , bid 'hem welcome ; Tell 'hem Sir Paule was hastily call'd forth on his Majesties affaires ; Entreat their patience till his returne , vvhich you know will be every sodaine although you know not vvhere he is ; and so forth , as occasion serues .  What haue you said Sir ?  I said but the meaning of what you should say , and put it in your owne vvords .  I am beholden to you .  Sir , This is one of the Guests ?  I beseech you mistake not so his purpose sir : which is faire vvelcome , and good cheare to you all . Therefore Gentlemen and ladies , vvill it please you to entertaine one another a while .  [ Enter Cleark vvith Sack and Tobacco . ]  Look yee . Here 's good Sack , and good Tobacco . And before the rest of the Guests become , Sir Paule vvill be here himselfe .  His protected friends sir .  I sir . There is a fraternity of them . The brothers of  the Protect . There 's not a man of 'hem , but has all Mayors , Sheriffes , Bayliffes , Sergeants at Mace , Marshalls men , Constables , and other his Maiesties Officers , in a Combcase in his pocket . They are a Generation that never eate but in Parliament time , and now every table is full of them .  Sir , here is a Iustice , and for the same purpose too for ought we know , that shall not refuse to doe it , and in sir Paules Gowne and Cap too .  Sir , you cannot doe a more acceptable office for your friend , then to execute his place in his absence . Your authority makes you capable of it ; and I doe the rather perswade it , because the Gentlemen whom you wisely suspect for loose person● , may see some example of Iustice ; which may preuent some present euill in their stay here . 