 Yes sure , methinkes I should know him . But I am sure I neuer saw him before . ha —  I apprehend him to be Master Salomon Nonsense , Son and Heire to my right worthy friend , sir Hercules Nonsense of Cornewall . If you be not hee sir . I am sure it is you . I may bee deceiu'd , but I am certaine t is hee .  Sir Phillip , and Madame , you apprehend these things as things done , when they are not things indeed , but as it were shew and deuise , as by the sequele you may at large apprehend .  ● or if you apprehend it rightly , it expresseth duety in the Woman to lye prepared for him ; and loue in the Man , not to be slacke to ●mbrace that duety .  I apprehend it to be past 12 a Clocke very neare .  I apprehend you sir .  I cry you mercy Gallants . I apprehend you would bee priuate .  I apprehend Gentlemen you are merrily dispos'd ; in good sadnesse .  Sure I did apprehend this mirth as ●ight as could bee possible the wrong way .  Madame , your case is in my apprehension , most desperate , yet 〈…〉 comfort in regard you seeke aduise and counsell . Mine is euer ready , and more fortunate oftentimes the Iudicious . For I doe nothing but vpon good reason and deliberation .  I apprehend it Sir . That sir Paul Squelch his Neece be first married or contracted , and then she consents to a divorce : And that you be assistant to her brother here to obtaine her for him .  I will onely appeare in it , for I will not be seene in the matter .  As thus sir . I will keepe your counsell : not onely in holding my peace to all the vvorld , but in saying nothing to sir Paul himselfe . d ee apprehend me sir ?  Your Master abroad and not within say you ?  I partly apprehend you at full . Mistris Traynwell appointed me to come too with all possible speede . M. Nonsense you are well apprehended .  Loue has made you a Courtier . M Nonsense   I apprehend you sir . —  Mistake me not I beseech you , I apprehend you to be some great stranger here : because you know the place better then the Master of it .  As I am a Iustice of Peace I cannot apprehend , and yet me thinks I doe . What sort of people these Gentlemen may be . See : more I Is sir Paule turn'd swaggerer ? Or is his house abus'd by servants ? I vvill not leaue it , vntill they goe out before mee like a layle deliuery . They looke like men betwixt a Repriue and Pardon . Friend : Are these sir Paules elected friends ?  Protected ?  I should wonder what they did here else . See . A roaring Doctor too , broke out o' the Kings Bench .  I apprehend you friend . Giue mee the Gowne and Chayre , and let the Delinquents approach . Vmh , vmh .  What newes bring you M. Constable ?  Are you a Spaniard sir ?  See Signior . Hee speakes nothing but Spanish . The question will be how we shall vnderstand this Examinant .  I do see Signior I thanke the light , that you are a goodly man of outward parts , and ezcept it were the black Knight himselfe , or him with the Fistula , the proprest man I haue seene of your Nation . They are a People of very spare dyet , I haue heard , and therefore seldome fat . Su●e you you haue had most of your breeding in this Countrey , the dyet whereof you like better then your own , which makes you linger here , after all you Country men , vpon some vncouth plot . And I shall wonder therefore how you can speake no English . Can you speake no English at all sir ? Answere me I pray .  Alasse , what shall wee doe then ? Gentlemen , haue any of you any Spanish , to helpe mee to vnderstand this strange Stranger ?  What Shiere of our Nation is next to Spaine ? Perhaps he may vnderstand that Shier , English .  I see we shall neuer vnderstand , nor doe good on him , till hee be instructed in the English tongue .  It must be so . His instruction will cost litle there , if hee be not too old to learne . Therefore set him by , and let mee fall vpon the Gentlewoman .  Now Gentlewoman , will it please you to be vnmasqu'd .  Mistris Trainowell , as I apprehend .  With all my heart , so you can speake Spanish and make him vnderstand you .  I wil say , she deserues for euer hereafter to hold her peace .  Question 〈◊〉 , we should know one another sir Paul : or else one of vs two were both very ignorant . 