 Sir Phillip you meane forsooth .  His worship said forsooth —  I said that as you bad me forsooth .  My Mistris commends her best loue vnto your Worship ; and desires to know how your Worship came home last night ; and how your Worship haue rested ; and how your Worship dos this morning ? Shee hopes the best of your Worships health ; and would be glad to see your Worship at your Worships best leasure .  Yes truly , and hee commended mee for it ; and said I shew'd my breeding .  Quoth hee . I thanke thy Mistris , and I thanke thee . Prithee commend my seruice to her , and tell her , my worship came home vpon my worships Foot-cloath ; my worship tooke very good rest , in my worships bed : My worship has very little to doe this Morning , and will see her at my worships leasure .  T was either so , or so much I am sure . But he did not make me repeat , as you did , till I had cond it by heart .  I will forsooth Mistris .  I shall forsooth Ma-dame .  Madame .  An dt please your Ladiship .  One M. Tridewell , ● Gentleman , desires to speak with your Ladiship , from Sir Phillip .  I will Madame —  Ma-dame .  O I brother . Shee must command all , or all shall smoke for 't . Shee did so in my old Masters dayes I a● sure .  And hee glad of peace at that rate too .  Yes both of her voice , and han●s .  And she could bite as well , the rankest Iade that ere was curried could not come neate her .  T is no matter for that .  Shee broke mee a tooth once with a deaths Headring on her finger ? it had like to ha' cost mee my life ! 't has beene a true Memento to mee euer since : bobs o' the lips , tweakes by the nose , cuffs o' the eare , and trenchers at my head in abundance .  Any thing shee can lift . and makes vs pay for all shee breakes , though shee breake our heads or races withall . Fan-handles , Looking-glasses or any thing .  Certes no Ma-dame .  Blesse vs ! what lookes are these !  Camitha Holdup sir . A poore Gentlewoman . My father  bore the office of a Commissioner for the peace in the VVest countrey , till Misfortune wrought his estate out of his hands .  T is too true sir . He paid so dearely for 't at last , that I haue no more , but my bare breeding , and what I beare about me to liue vpon .  Which is mine owne already .  Sir , you haue most worthily made me your owne ; and all my study shall be to obey you .  Some simple honest body sir .  What shall I doe with all this sir ? I would indeed but buy an ounce or two of threed ; some Netting pins and Needles , and a Frame to flourish my worke on . Hereafter I will worke in gold and siluer , if you please , for your owne wearing .  Sir , be you and this Lady but as confident of my fidelity ,  and trust me in this action , and if I breake not the toyles your Kinsman is in , and make you Mistris of my Intrest in sir Paul , let all the good you intended me , bee a lockram Coife , a blew Gowne , a Wheele and a cleane Whip . You are sure the Lady will yeild to Diuorce , if Constance whom I now personate be first maried or contracted .  And you are sure that Constance is safe from her discouery .  To any then that knowes her not very well , If I appeare not the same Constance — you haue giuen me her Character right ?  Nay , I haue a further helpe then , you both imagine yet .  It shall be no secret . My Seruant Howdee , whom you and sir Paul , suppose his Lady turn'd away , was by her Ladiship taught onely to faigne it ; and cunningly instructed to worke himselfe into the seruice of Constance , to further her brothers proceedings . And since fortune has put him vpon me , whom hee takes to bee the same Mistris , if I make not apt vse of it —  If my deceit now , should bee discouered , before my worke be ended , my Brain tricks might perhaps , in stead of all these faire hopes , Purchase me the Lash . fore Venus . my flesh eene trembles to thinke on 't . It brings likewise into my consideration , the basenesse of my condition ; how much vnpittied the punishment of a Whore is , and how sodainely it ouertakes her ? My ioynt Conspiratours are in no danger . I only run the  hazard , though they are as deepe in fact as my selfe . Well . If I scape this pull , and draw any fortune by 't , I le change my function sure . A common Whore ? I le be a Nun rather . They come most fitly , and I must into my fit — Withdrawes behind the hanging .  ●is pa●● your strength or reach either by forty I beleeue . I doubt your midle finger is too short Master Widgin● .  Who be you I pray ?  Yes sir , I heare you vary weell ; and could ●ene wish i' my heart I could beleeue you .  I doe beleeue you sir . But pray protest no more by that name till you make your selfe such by marying me . You haue getten a barne by me , I is sure o'th at .  Marry mee , marry me , quoth the bonny Lasse : and when will you beginne .  I can but thanke you , obey you , and pray for you sir .  Nay sir . You shall not say , you married me for nought : you shall heare me sing before you goe .  As I was gathring Aprill's flowers ,  He● streight let fall one of his showers ;  Which dra●e me to an arbour .  T were better I my Lap had fill'd .  Although the wet my clothes had spill'd ,  Then to ha' found that harbour  For there a subtile Serpent was ,  Close lying , lurking in the Grasse .  And there while harmelesse thinking I ,  Still watching when the showre would dye ,  Lay listning to a Bird ,  That singing sate vpon the Bower ,  Her noates vnto the falling showre ,  the Snake beneath me stird ;  And with his sting gaue me a clap ,  that swole my belly not my lap .  And by my conscience t is true , t were made i' Durham , on a Lasse of my bignesse .  But will you be gan now , than all my ioy leaues me .  Remember your Couenant with Master Tridewell Captaine . And when the worke is done , here 's my hand , you shall partake of what I get by 't . And harke you .  Is mine Vncle comd ? and mun we part than ?  All benisons bee with you . Indeed you be the goodliest man , that ere made Maiden faine .  This may breed good blood . If I come but as well off o' my old Vncle , as am like to come on with my young Cose● , here will be a match vnlook'd for ; a match vvithout treaty ; a match vntalk'd or vnheard of . Hee is comming before I haue shifted my face . Mee thinks I heare the rusting of his bristles hither . Yet my lips must stand the assault ; pray loue the Porcupine , leaue none of his quills in 'hem .  No : now I see you sir , I am well : perfectly well : yet pardon me sir . Your absence cannot but breed me feare , when I haue leasure to thinke on my vnworthy condition , and the danger I vndergoe in 't .  Good sir be pittifull for the vvomans sake , and release him . Perhaps her reckoning is out , and she has no body to call the Midwife .  Indeed I 'le put out the Candle when you are here then , for I shall never endure to see other shape of Man . O these trunke ho●● are a comely wearing .  Sweet sayst thou ? Thou art not I 'le sweare . I am glad he was prevented . I should never held out a course with him , that cannot endure a breathing : a Cheese-shop on fire cannot out-stinke him .  Yea marry Humfrey , what may that be and t is not of Sir Phillip   By my saule that will I an 't be all the world over .  Wee 'll leaue him at six and seauens . I meane betwixt both . 'T will be trim trust me . And hear'st thou me Humfrey . Thou must bid Mistris Traynwell sonne to me a little before six ● for a very good reason .  Nay , it shall hinder nothing . Wee 'le away the faster .  Come with me Humfrey , thou shalt goe eene now , and tell her ; and I 'le be packing vp the while . —  Mine Vncle will by right wood I feare me . But I le neare greet for that sir , while I haue your loue .  I would be glad and t were so .  Sir , my Child shall trouble your Parish no longer , here is a Father , my troth plight Husband , sufficient to keepe it and me , wilt thou not Duck ?  Sure I doe not . This Gentleman , and this Gentlewoman , and this trusty Seruant of ours are my witnesses , I am your Wife sir .  Yes most freely .  Sir for my part , I le take my corporall oath — 