 He will speake all himselfe .  Has he the speed to run beyond himselfe ?  Now hee s in .  Deare , worthy , honour'd , sir ,  Pray heare me , sir .  not to offend —  J married , sir , your Daughter .  J married her in a firme hope to winne  Your Love and favour .  And as you finde my regular life deserve  Your future favour , so extend your bounty ,  When Age shall call upon you to dispose  Of all your faire Possessions .  I mean , Sir , as I speak ; that till you finde  Strong probability in me to manage  A good estate , you trust me not with any .  All Sir , all : I have spread my Nets already .  He found 's abed last night i' th' nick , as we say .  But we are peec'd this morning .  Halfe , of all he has .  On this Condition , that , if J save  That halfe untill he dyes , the rest is mine too .  Hee l spend the tother ; and the same way , hee sweares .  I le tell you how he runs at waste already ,  This morning the French Taylor brought a Gowne home ,  Of the fashion , for my Wife . He bought one  Streight , ready made , for his old Gentlewoman ,  That never wore so rich in all her life .  I spoke but of a Coach , and he bespoke one .  What the new Ordnary ?  They call him Osbright .  A brave old Blade . He was the President  Of the Can-quarrelling Fraternity ,  Now calld the Roaring Brotherhood , thirty years since ,  But now grown wondrous civill , free , and hospitable ,  Having had something fallen to him , as it seemes .  It was given out so : But he lived beyond Sea .  O thou pollitick nolle .  Such a suspition were a sin . But now  I will unfold the Riddle to you . This feasting  Has been but for three dayes , and for great persons ,  That are invited , and to be prepar'd  To venture for a prize . This very night  There will be some great Rifling for some Jewell ,  Or other rare Commodity they say .  I cannot nam 't : t is twenty pound a man .  That 's to come :  But , hitherto , nor Dice , nor Cards nor Wench ,  Is seen i th' house , but his owne onely Daughter .  I dare be sworne thou dost 'em wrong .  Yes , she was born and bred there : And can speak  English but brokenly . But , for French behaviour ,  Shee s a most compleat Damoiselle , and able  To give instructions to our Courtliest Dames .  T is the wretch Vermine .  What should he do elsewhere , when Law 's his Lechery .  The Devils itch dry up his marrow for 't .  He undid a worthy Gentleman I know .  Alasse his Fathers fall has ruined him .  Meere want of maint'nance forc'd him to service ,  In which hee 's lately travell'd into France .  A good one like enough : I le lay a wager  Hee 's poching 'mong the trees here , for a Broker ,  To match his daughter to a landed husband .  This is their walk .  Thou 'lt nere indure his breath , it stinkes of brimstone .  Is she stolne from you Sir ? In troth I am glad on 't .  And lastly , this you tell us ; which , but that  It comes from your own mouth , were e'en too good  For our belief , me-thinks .  Gentlemen , Sir ,  That cannot but rejoyce at your affliction ,  And therefore blamelesse , that desire to hear it .  I know him ; 't is the wise Western Knight , that should  Have married Vermines daughter .  How is she gone , I pray Sir ?  Good angry man give us leave to talk with thy Master .  Did you leave skin and shooes , and all behind Sir ?  Good Sir , fall from your man to your beast againe .  'T is enough , I know you Sir Amphilus , and have fool'd enough with you . Adieu ; my businesse calls me . Gentlemen , will you meet me to night at the Ordinary . —  Exit .   J am sure he does not know me . If he could ,  J were as sure this Charity would be rejected .  So much J know his Spirit . Is your name Brookeall , sir ?  You had a Son late of this house .  If this be gold ,  He lives and sent it to you ; forty peeces ?  He 's in a way ,  Now to a hopefull fortune . A Noble Gentleman ,  Late gone to travell , ta'ne with good affection  Towards your Son , has ta'ne him to his care :  And like a Father , not a Master , keeps him .  From whose free bounty he receiv'd this meanes .  J had a Letter too ;  Though most unhappily mislay'd .  In his own hand .  That 's all J crave excuse for .  You speak not like a Father : wanting meanes  Your selfe for his advancement , would you bar him  The bounty of anothers full ability ?  What mean you ?  Pray , sir , collect your selfe .  Right , sir .  Most true .  O , sir .  This is meer madnesse . In an Act so foule ,  As your wilde Fancy gathers this to be ;  Who could escape the Law ?  VVhat shall J do for pity ? — Now J have it .  Pray heare me , sir .  You know me for a Gentleman , though an Enemy .  ( I must speak in his phrase ) and by that honour  A Gentleman should keep sacred , two houres hence  I le meet you in this place —  From whence wee 'll walke —  As nothing were betwixt us — to some other Fit ground , ( as you propounded ) where wee 'll end the difference .  You shall see , sir .  Prithee beat off the Curs .  So , arise ; enough , enough .  Good Ambrose , be not so severe , who knowes  What need we may of him ? We are all  Flesh and blood Ambrose .  Mass , t was so late , I had almost forgotten it .  Enough . Amb. This touch , & I have done —   Away   This may work good upon the Rascall , if he  Have but humanity , although no grace .  And think you have done wondrous wisely ; do you not ?  To sneak before me thither . I know all  You have discover'd ; and how far you are  Mistaken in the old man and his Daughter .  All shall be plaine to you soon . Walk off a little .  Since when , sir .  Old Brookall is not come yet .  You are a busy foole .  You lye , Sir .  You lye again , Sir .  That she has a wretch , a miserable Caitiff  Unto her Father .  A villain that has scrap'd up by oppression  Law-strife and Perjury , a Dowry for her ,  So mixt with curses , that it would consume  An Earles Estate to match with it and her .  And leave him curs'd in his Posterity .  Prethee how can 't be otherwise ?  Hadst thou a vertuous Childe ( as here and there ,  Some Mothers win a soule ) it would be taken  Dead or alive from thee , unto thy greife too ,  To scape the curse might come with a Childs part  Of thine ill-got estate : that 's thy Daughters case .  But shew me where an evill Off-spring has not  Surviv'd to spurn the dust of such a Father ;  And lewdly wast in one or two descents  ( Unto their own destruction ) what was purchased  At price of soules departed ?  I have not done w 'yee yet .  What corrupt Lawyer , or usurious Citizen ,  Oppressing Landlord , or unrighteous Judge ,  But leaves the World with horror ? and their wealth ,  ( By rapine forc'd from the oppressed Poor )  To Heires , that ( having turnd their Sires to th' Devil )  Turne Idiots , Lunaticks , Prodigals , or Strumpets ?  All wanting either wit , or will , to save  Their fatall Portions from the Gulfe of Law .  Pride , Ryot , Surfets , Dice , and Luxury ,  Till Beggary , or diseases turnes them after ?  A word or two for use ; and so an end .  Feare not : I will not fayle you .  I am Sir , here it is .  For rarity and plenty ,  There 's no such Pension in all this City .  For lesse then kisse your Hostesse .  The flowre of France , and quintessence of Spaine  Flow like a Spring-tyde through the House .  Not of his Daughter : But I heard his Son  Was freed , this day , from Prison .  I le tell you how . Some freind has paid his debt ,  The Action is dischargd ; and he 's releas d.   Troth , she begs prettily . I must give her something .  Here Wench .  Will you come in againe Sir ?  A shilling more on that .  Prithee what 's thy name ?  Nell ?  This Girle , methinks , howere necessitated  Into this course , declares she has a spirit  Of no grosse ayre : And J dare think her Blood ,  Although , perhaps , of some unlawfull mixture ,  Deriv'd from Noble veines . One may perceive  Much in her Language , in her Looks , and Gesture ,  That pleads , methinks , a duty above pitty ,  To take her from this way , wherein she wanders  So farr from the intent of her Creation .  Ten Peices J would give  Towards a new one for her .  Stay . Who would not have given this Money ? Gentlemen ,  Dost not move you to give a packing penny ?  For your son .  Be this your pennance for your misbeleife ,  Hye you to the Compter : if you finde not there  Your son ; meet me an hour hence at my Fathers ,  I le tell you news of him ; and he perhaps  May tell you of his Sister . This deserves  A fee . Your absence pays it me . Go quickly ,  We have some businesse : And your stay will but  Make the Scene tedious .  Onely this Sir .  You have playd at small Game with me . Now there is  A greater try all of my Love and Bounty ,  Instantly to be made . A Gentleman ,  ( J stay too long ) an intimate Freind 's arrested ,  But for two hundred pound on execution :  Will you joyne Charity to fetch him off ?  I have kept my time you see ; and shall not faile  In any Circumstance . Here are two Swords ,  Pray take your choice . I have bespoke a Boat  Shall land us o're the water , where you please ;  Though , I Protest , I yet would beg your Love ,  Next to my Naturall Fathers .  You took my part of late , against old Vermin   Why , if there be no remedy , pray accept  Your forty pounds . The money , Sir , may stead you  For your escape , when you have ta'ne my Life .  I told you of a Letter I had mislaid :  Look you . Do you know his hand ?  Was ever given Gold so weigh'd , and try'd ?  What Lawyer , Nay , what Judge would be so scrupulous ?  No want corrupts good Conscience : Nor excess  Allaies in bad , the thirst of Cov'tousness .  I think you beg again , and would be whipt .  Her money , sure ,  Has made her Mad : How do you finde it , Sir ?  Till all Opinion gave her dead ; and then  The meanes he has sought to do you Offices  Against your knowledge . For he knew your Spirit  Would not except of his benevolence . —  But does she live , to whom this was directed ?  It is .  The business Gentlemen .  Hast thou been shav'd since ?  Disguis'd !  Who knowes but he may prove an honest man ?  Pray , Sir , a word .  Sergeants you shall not out of the House . Here 's for halfe an houres attendance . Go into that Room with your Prisoner . You shall have Wine , and Smoak too .  Be of good cheere friend ; if thou canst be honest ,  I can relieve thee : feare not .  VVee 'll talk anon . The Youth appeares converted .  His Father comes on fairely : I have follow'd  All your Instructions concerning him ,  And my fantastick Father ' Law . Both whom  Are hard at hand , with the wise western Knight .  He too 's content to go to the best Ordinary ,  VVhile t is best cheap he saies . VVhere are the women ?  The better .  But is the house cleare , Sir , of all your Riflers ?  T is good .  I may fetch in my Guests In the mean time  You may be pleas'd , Sir , to peruse this Baper . —  Exit .   Stand here , unseene ; and heare attentively .  No passion , gentle Soule .  Alasse she swounes , Sir cheare you up this Lady ,  While I appease the rest . A word with you Sir .  Heere 's one has brought her in his true Conversion .  Do you note those teares , Sir ? Had you lost your Daughter ,  My Father had in this made you amends ,  In finding you a Son . His Art converted him .  Thou hast made me young againe : the best  Occurrents in this Project have been thine .  Thy Accidents exceeded my designe .  They do not yet cease here : For see , the strife  Betwixt these long continued Adversaries  Perfectly reconcil'd ; and both have given  The young and hopefull married paire their Blessings .  They are beholden to you . Mr. Vermine  Restores unto the Son the Fathers Land ,  For Dowry with his Daughter : And is taken  So with the good you wrought upon his Son ,  The Convertite here ; that if he stand firme  Till ' the determination of your Mortgage ,  Hee l cancell it , and send it Gratis to you .  The most to be admir'd of all ;  He loves my Sister here ; and has done long :  But , now , that he perceaves her worth ( being yours )  And , since you promis'd him your Daughter too ,  He makes it his faire suit . 