 Here Sir —  Now for a Speech —  It is indeed  As strange to me , as are the stony wonders  On Salsbury Plaine to others . But my duty  Perswades me t was your thrift , and that great blessing  That gives increase to honest Industry ,  Drawne on it by your prayers and upright life ,  That wrought these heaps together .  You had other wayes .  Your Money .  But he yet may be turn'd Sir .  I will not forfeit my obedience Sir ,  To urge against your Justice , onely I crave  Your leave to grieve , that I have such a Brother .  I do not crave  More , then your daily blessing ; but desire  To know what you le impose upon my duty .  Now Love defend me from the man I feare .  The Westerne Kight Sir , that was here last Term ?  Would I  Were out on 't first . A matchlesse Knight  [ Aside . ]   Indeed , and shall be matchlesse still for me .  Sir , I have heard , he has  But little Land .  He 's well in yeares .  How came he by his Knighthood ? Cost it nothing ?  Unlesse some unexpected Fate releive me ,  I shall be hurried to my endlesse ruine .  How ? As he is a Foole ?  This Fellow talkes not like a Serving-man :  A forty shilling wages Creature , but  Some disguis'd spokes-man . What may be the trick o' nt ?  No more then you perceive the paines you loose  In fooling for him thus . But spare your breath ,  And take this briefe tast of his Entertainment .  First know , that J do know the man you speak of ,  To be a covetous Miser ; old and foolish .  Not worth in my estimation the worst Meale  That ever he himselfe paid three pence for .  Yes Squire , J know him and his qualities ;  The waies he got his Wealth by , casuall Matches ;  Of forty , fifty , and sometimes a hundred  For one . When bounteous Fortune ( seldome failing  Men of his Brain ) cast all into his mouth ,  The Gudgeon gap d for . And how slight a thing  It is , for such base Worldlings to be rich ?  That study nothing but to scrape and save .  That have no Faith , but in their ready money ,  Nor love to Worldly pleasures above those  Poor Coblers use .  J hate to think of of such a Dunghill Scarab .  A water-Dog Knight !  His Age is fit for nothing , but to rock  Anothers Child ; and to rejoyce through Spectacles ,  At the strong Guesse he has , it is his owne .  J will nor weigh , nor see him , or his reasons .  And if thou ow'st him so much Service , tell him ;  Go back and tell him strait : save him the end  Of his intended Journey . For to come  Hither , will be to drive me hence . And tell  My Father , ere he shall enforce me , take him ;  I le flye into the Armes of one he hates .  Yes , by all my hopes .  Beshrew me but J am . How got you hither ?  Could not the Compter hold you ?  What 's the meaning of all this ?  Why ? Wither ? What s the matter ?  I le sooner dye then have him .  Why , whither would you have me ?  There 's some good stuff in 't 't .  Better then you , don't you respect your Father  Better then me ?  Who shall look toth ' house ?  Y' are a precious Brother . —  Exeunt .   So well , that could I but shake off the feare  ( Which is most dangerous ) of a Fathers curse ,  I durst prouounce ; nay , boast my happinesse ,  To be above my Virgin hopes , or wishes .  The faire respect I have , sir , to your Noblesse ;  For what you have already shown me , bars  Mine eares 'gainst protestation . I dare trust you .  They have no other drink , except water . And Maids are allowed but that .  No such matter , Mrs. Bumpsey .  Take heed she does not take too much .  No harm J warrant you .  You brought me hither , Sir , and here I le stay .  Mrs Bumpsey ; pray feare no harm .  Your pardon , and your blessing , I beseech you .  Pray Sir your blessing . 