 Where are you , my Lord Ethelswick ?  May I not see the King ?  May you enjoy  This night the greatnesse of your Office ;  To morrow if I have a King , I 'l see and speak with him .  You say he sleeps ,  Go to , sleep ( quoth a ! ) yes , perhaps he sleeps ,  'T is with his Ancestors I fear .  I say , you do not well , my Lord , to keep  Our duties back from 's Majesty , that have  As well been trusted — I will keep the rest :  But 't is not well .  I wish his rest as well as you , my Lord ,  Nay more : But I will keep the rest till morning ,  And so joy to the greatnesse of your Office .  Sh't , sh't , let him take it  How he or will or dare , we have agreed .  The body of the Council have decreed it  You must depart the Court .  Must and shall ,  You and your trim confederate ; you have had  The rule here over your Ruler , till you have made him  Wild , frantick , mad , and us too ; God forgive me  For saying so , almost as mad as he ;  I hope it is no treason .  Take 'em hence ;  Thrust 'em out o th' Court .  In the mean time go travel on adventures ,  Whilst we do our indeavour to amend  What you have marr'd by screwing the Kings brain  Into the nick of Order once again .  Put forth a bed , Anthynus on it bound   See , see , my Lord , how they have kept him dark ,  Manacl'd and bound on 's bed ? was ever King  Us'd thus ? for pities sake unbind him quickly .  Have but a little patience , we 'l unloose you .  Beshrew their heards that us'd him thus to vex him .  How do you like him Doctor ?  Alas ,  What King ? what freedome would you have ?  You are our King , and shall command your freedom ,  And all our lives , would you but sleep a while .  See my Lord ,  Theodrick is come .  Was not this my policy ,  To send for him ? more , was it not my wit  To fashion letters as with 's own hand  To fetch the Queen ? you 'l see more at her coming .  I am at my wits end too ; if marriage  Will not tame him , I know not what to say to 't .  So , so , a few nights trial has got her liking  For ever fast enough ; what notable old Cockscombs  Have we been made ? nay , made our selves indeed .  See King Osriick .  A shame on 't . would I were hang'd , that I  Might hear no more on 't . 