 You found your legs in time , I had made you halt for something else .  Why , Sir , a counterfeit lame Rogue beg'd of me ; but in such Language , the high Sheriffs Son o' the Shire could not have spoke better ; nor to have borrowed a greater summe . ( He ask'd me if I could spare him ten or twenty pound . ) I switch'd him , his Cudgel was up . I drew , and into the Wood he scap'd me , as nimbly — But first he told me , I should heare from him by a Gentleman , to require satisfaction of me .  No . What 's the matter with her ? Goes her Marriage forwards with young , Master Talboy ? I hasten'd my Journey from London to be at the Wedding .  Such young Wenches will have their owne waies in their own loves , what Matches soever their Guardians make for 'em . And I hope my Father will not follow the Law so close to hang his Cleark for stealing his Ward with her own consent . It may breed such a grudg , may cause some Clearks to hang their Masters , that have 'em o' the hip of injustice . Besides , Martin ( though he be his servant ) is a Gentleman . But , indeed , the miserablest Rascal ! He will grudge her Meat when he has her .  But what saies Talboy to the matter , the Bridegroom , that should ha' been ?  I like him well for that : He holds his humour . A miserable wretch too , tho' rich . I ha' known him cry when he has lost but three shillings at Mum-chance . But , Gentlemen , keep on your way to comfort my Father . I know some of his Man's private haunts about the Countrey here , which I will search immediately .  No , by no means : That will be too publique .  My pleasure , and all the search that I intend , is , by hovering here , to take a review of a brace of the handsomest Beggar-braches that ever grac'd a Ditch or a Hedge side . I past by 'em in hast , but somthing so possesses me , that I must — What the Devil must I ? A Beggar ? Why , Beggars are flesh and bloud ; and Rags are no Diseases . Their Lice are no French Fleas . And there is much wholsommer flesh under Country Dirt , than City Painting : And less danger in Dirt and Rags , than in Ceruse and Sattin . I durst not take a touch at London , both for the present cost , and fear of an after-reckoning . But Oliver , dost thou speak like a Gentleman ? fear Price or Pox , ha ? Marry do I Sir : Nor can Beggar-sport be inexcusable in a young Country Gentleman , short of means , for another respect , a principal one indeed ; to avoid the  punishment or charge of Bastardy : There 's no commuting with them ; or keeping of Children for them . The poor Whores , rather than part with their own , or want children at all , will steal other folks , to travel with , and move compassion . He feeds a Beggar-wench well that fils her belly with young bones . And these reasons considered , good Master Oliver — s'lid yonder they are at peep . And now sitten downe as waiting for my purpose .  Ent. Vinc.   Heart here 's another delay . I must shift him . Dost heare honest poor fellow ? I prethee go back presently : and at the hill foot ( here 's sixpence for thy paines ) thou shalt finde a Footman with a Horse in his hand . Bid him wait there . His Master will come presently , say .  Thy Language makes me wonder at thy Person . What 's the matter with thee ? quickly .  What , such a one as thou art , was he ?  The bravest Method in Beggars , that ever was discovered ! I would be upon the bones of this Rogue now , but for crossing my other designe , which fires me . I must therefore be rid of him on any terms . Let his owne Appointments stand . Tell him I 'll meet him .  You 'll be his Second , will you ?  I 'll send a Beadle shall undertake you both .  I think , as my Friend said , the Court goes a begging indeed . But I must not lose my Beggar-wenches .  Enter Rachel and Meriel .  Oh here they come . They are delicately skin'd and limb'd . There , there , I saw above the ham as the wind blew . Now they spie me .  Very fine , this !  They beg as high as the Man-beggar I met withal ! sure the Beggars are all mad to day , or bewitched into a Language they understand not . The spirits of some decay'd Gentry talk in 'em sure .  This exceeds all that ever I heard , and strikes me into wonder . Pray tell me how long have you been Beggars ; or how chanc'd you to be so ?  How came you to talk thus , and so much above the Beggars Dialect ?  Sure some well disposed Gentleman , as my self , got these Wenches . They are too well growne to be mine owne , and I cannot be incestuous with 'em .  What a tempting lip that little Rogue moves there ! and what an inticing eye the ' tother . I know not which to begin with . What 's this a flea upon thy bosome ?  O what a provoking Skin is there ! that very touch inflames me .  Mov'd ? I am mov'd . No flesh and blood more mov'd .  Benevolence ? which shall I be benovolent to ; or which first ? I am pussell'd in the choice . Would some sworne Brother of mine were here to draw a Cut with me .  First let me tell you , Damsels , I am bound by a strong vow to kisse all of the woman sex I meet this morning .  All , all . Let not your coynesse cross a Gentlemans vow , I beseech you —  Kisse .   Tell quoth a ! I could tell a thousand on those Lips — and as many upon those . What life restoring breaths they have ! Milke from the Cow steams not so sweetly . I must lay one of 'em aboard ; both if my tackling hold .  But how to bargain , now , will be the doubt . They that beg so high as by the handfulls , may expect for price above the rate of good mens wives .  With all my heart , Sweetheart . And I am glad thou knowest my minde . Here is twelve-pence a peece for you .  That 's but in earnest . I 'll Jest away the rest with yee . Look here — All this . Come , you know my meaning . Dost thou look about thee , Sweet little One ? I like thy care . There 's no body coming . But we 'll get behind these Bushes . I know you keep each others Counsels — Must you be drawn to 't ? Then I 'll pull . Come away —  Come leave your squealing .  Hurt 'em ? I meant 'hem but too well . Shall I be so prevented ?  Do you talk Shake-rag : Heart yond 's more  of 'em . I shall be Beggar-mawl'd if I stay . Thou saist right , honest fellow , there 's a Tester for thee .  What the Devil ayles the Fellow tro ? why ! why Master Talboy ; my Cozen Talboy that should'st ha' been , art not asham'd to cry at this growth ? and for a thing that 's better lost then found ; a Wench ?  So , this is brave now , if 't would hold .  Because thou canst not speak for crying . Fy Master Talboy , agen ?  Now he will cry his eyes out ! You Sir . This life have I had with you all our long journey ; which now is at an end here . This is Master Oldrents house , where perhaps we shall finde old Hearty , the Uncle of that Rogue Martin , that is run away with your Sweetheart .  Hold your peace and minde me . Leave your bawling , for fear I give you correction . This is the House I say , where it is most likely we shall hear of your Mistris and her companion . Make up your face quickly . Here comes one of the Servants , I suppose .  Enter Randall .  Shame not your self for ever , and me for company . Come , be confident .  Good morrow , Friend . This is Squire Oldrents House , I take it .  Thou speak'st wittily and honestly . But I prethee , good Friend , let our Nags be set up : they are tied up at the post . You belong to the Stable , do you not ?  We have rid hard , hoping to finde the Squire at home at this early time in the morning .  Our Horses , good Friend .  But good Fiend , our Horses .  Pray hold your peace , or feign some mirth , if you can .  Pray think of our horses , Sir .  Our Horses , I prethee .  O! we shall not forget you , Friend , if you remember our Horses , before they take harm .  Is not your Master coming , think you ?  You told me so , indeed .  That Hearty is Martins Uncle . I am glad he is here . Bear up Talboy . Now , Friend , pray let me ask you a question . — Prethee stay .  I thought I should never have been rid of him . But no sooner desir'd to stay , but he is gone . A pretty humour !  No Snayle 's a great word with him . Prethee Talboy bear up .  Enter Vsher   Here comes another gray Fellow .  In good time , Sir . We shall be bold here , then , to attend your Masters coming .  I was told so before , Sir . No Snayle ! sure 't is  the word of the House , and as ancient as the Family .  Thanks , good Master Usher .  He has given the Hint too .  In what please you , Sir . We cannot deny the curtesie of the House , in the Masters absence .  Still 't is the House-word . And all the Servants wear Livery-Beards .  There he is too .  Please your self , Sir .  Good Sir , a Cup of your Houshold-Beer .  Exit . But.   I fear he will draw down to that at last .  I have often heard so . And here 's to you , Master Cook — Prithee speak , Master Talboy , or force one Laugh more , if thou canst .  Well said .  He has the Word too in Latine . Now bear up Talboy .  It is a gentle Offer , Sir ; and as gently to be taken .  Yet it appears you were abroad betimes , Sir .  So your men told us , Sir .  He hopes your pardon , Sir : his Cause consider'd .  He has lost his Mistris , Sir .  They are not lost , I hope Sir .  Sir , I am chiefly to inform you of the Disaster .  'T is most true —  He gives Hearty a Letter .   Sir , if you can prevent his danger —  It shall be none , Sir .  Let him not hear , to grieve him , Sir .  Call it not businesse , I beseech you , Sir . We desie all businesse .  Sir , Master Oldrents , in that he injoyes not your company , begins to doubt of his welcome .  Sir , his own desire , and love to you , brought him hither . I but shew'd him the way .  Pray , Sir , be pleas'd to do so : for he saies —  Who shall hear one another .  Exit . Oliver .   He was never so before . If it be a Lightning before Death , the best is , I am his Heire .  This is the first fit that ever he had of this Disease . And if it be his last , I say , as I said before . I am his Heire .  Exit .   Are not you the Gentleman , that challeng'd me in right of your Friend here ?  I hope we all are Friends . 