 Of nothing but  My guts that cry within me Sir for meat .  I hear no other cry , nor have not done .  Almost these 5. years .  It is a belly-divel rather , that has tormented me  E're since I serv'd you under ground hereby . No man  Above ground could have fasted like me .  Yes , such as Caterpillers eat ;  Blossomes and Buds , many green growing things ,  Such as you make your medicines of , and Roots , would I could get  Some of the Caterpillers . A dish of Caterpillers fryed ,  Let me see in what ? in Usurers grease , if one  Knew where to get it , might serve to feast an Emperour .  But we live out o th' world by Prayer and Fasting .  But Sir , there 's difference in our exercises . If I  Could spend my time , whole dayes in prayer , as  You do , this kind of fare or fasting  Rather , would not be so bitter to me .  Yes , something like the croaking of a Frog me thought . If it  Were one , I would wade up to the waste for 't  For my supper . Here , here Sir , here 't is , here 's more  Work for you . Once a week we are commonly troubled  Either to cure or bury one or other , thank the  Outlaws , they make us work for nothing here , as if we dwelt  Here for the purpose , nor do I know other indeed .  There 's great hope of recovery , you hear he  Sayes he cannot speak .  He does , he does ; hang 't he 'l do well enough .  And to morrow up with him again , and then down  Into a grave . Better let him lie now Sir ,  You 'l ne're do good on him I doubt ; He looks  So damnably as if the Divel were at my elbow  For him .  Nay , had I his weight in Venison so neer kill'd , and might be allow'd to  Eat it ; I would ask no more flesh while I liv'd .  Not I Sir , I heard nothing .  Here Sir , here 's something that perhaps has groand .  But it 's out of hearing now .  So , more work still .  Whilst we are gathering Simples to cure one ,  Here 's another John Simple laid in our way to bury .  I , but he has no breath , not so much I 'l undertake as a  Scolding wife that has been 9. dayes in the grave .  Good master , let it warn you ; though we have hitherto  Pass'd by these man-Tygers , these wolvish Outlaws safely , early and late , as not  Worth their malice . Yet pray Sir now since they  Begin to kill men of this coat , and these years , let us  Forsake this Salvage habitation , and live  In the world of meat again .  He 's holp away , and made away enough already methinks .  Sure they have blown their sins into him that kill'd him ,  He 's so heavy , he 's deadly heavy . Pray Sir let me  Fetch my grave instruments & your book and bestow him here .  You will not bury him in your Cave I 'm sure .  I would I had but this Fellows weight in buttock Beef .  I , to Prison with him . 