 SInce it has pleasd the highest  Power to place me  His substitute in Regal Soveraignty ,  Over this Kingdom , by the generall vote  Of you my loyall Lords , and loving Subjects ,  Though grounded on my right of due Succession ;  Being immediate heir , and only child  Of your late much deplored King my Father .  I am in a most reverend duty bound  Unto that Power above me , and a wel -  Befitting care towards you my faithfull people ,  To rule and govern so ( at least so neere  As by all possibility I may )  That I may shun Heavens anger , and your grief .  Which that I may , at our last consultation  The better to passe through my weighty charge ,  I gave you to consider of the Proposition  Is made to me by the Northumbrian King  Of marriage , not only to enable me  In my government , but therby to strengthen  This Kingdom in succeeding times , by a line  Of lawfull Successors . I gave you all  My strong & most unanswerable reasons :  To which you seemd contented , all but one ,  Who with the rest by this I hope is satisfied .  'T is you , Lord Segebert , you it is I mean :  Does it appear to you yet reasonable ,  That I be matcht to the Northumbrian King ?  I have with patience waited a whole moneth  For you to rectifie your scrupulous judgement ,  Whereby it might comply with these , no way  Inferiour to your self , but are your Peers ,  As well in their known wisdom , as my favour .  Peace : stop his mouth . Unreaverend old man ,  How darst thou thus oppose thy Soveraignes will ,  So well approvd by all thy fellow Peers ;  Of which the meanest equals thee in judgement ?  Do you hear this , my Lords ?  I thank you , good my Lord .  Speak , I can hear you though . Forbear him Lords .  You have said enough .  I le hear no more .  Traytor !  Forbear . Now he 's not worth your speaking to .  I have forborn you long , for the old love  My Father in his life conferr'd upon you  And still I yield to it so much as saves  Your head , bold talking fellow . But Sir hear  Your doom . Since the Kings love hath puff'd your dotage  With swoln conceit ( for what can it be lesse  That you are now my King ( for sure you think so )  I 'll try my Title with you . Hence you Exile :  Go in perpetual banishment from this Kingdome .  Speak not a word for him .  A way , you 'l be too cruel .  No , he has children .  Why are ye not gone ?  Out with it then , and then out with your self .  And what of this ?  It follows now that you would have these Lords ,  Whom you have so abus'd , to plead for you .  Pray if you meet that good old Lord Alberto ,  Now in your exile , send him home to us ;  I 'l promise him your Honour in the State .  Go from my sight , and if after three dayes  Thou art seen in my Dominion , I will give  A thousand crowns to him that brings thy head .  See Proclamation sent to that effect .  Be gone I say , why dost thou stay ?  Enough to give a warning to all such  As dare oppose their Princes purposes ;  Conduct in now th' Embassador of Northumbria .  Whilst I review his Masters brighter Figure  Exit Elkw. Elf.    As ardently , ( but with more pure affection )  As ere did Cynthia her Endimion .  Ent. Emb.    My Lord , you have attended long , but now  I shall return that answer to your King ,  That if his love be as you have pretended  May well excuse your stay . Tell him this story ,  A King sent forth a General to besiege  A never conquered City . The siege was long ,  And no report came back unto the King ,  How well or ill his Expedition thriv'd ;  Until his doubtful thoughts had given lost ,  His hope o th' City , and his Army both .  When he being full of this despair , ariv'd  o th' suddam his brave General with Victory ;  Which made his thanks , as was his conquest double .  You may interpret me my Lord .  A blush may be excus'd in the confession :  'T is my first answer to the question : Yes .  You have said well ,  Let us enform you better ,  Let it be so . The tenth of the next month  I 'l be prepar'd to entertain his Highness :  First to confirm a contract ; then as soon  As he shall please to consummate our marriage .  In the mean time this Figure , which you say  Resembles him , as Painters skill affords :  Indeed it is a sweet one . Shall be daily  Kisses it   My deer companion most unseparably ;  And when I sleep it shall partake my Pillow .  Does he love mine as well d' ye think my Lord ?  Nay , speak my Lord , pray speak .  Indeed .  Indeed I am pleas'd . I 'l stay you but to night ,  To morrow you shall hasten towards the King .  And for your speed wear this .  What means my love ?  I take it as the providence of Heaven ;  And from the Son of that most injur'd Father ,  Whom now in my joys strength I could shed tears for .  I yield you are my head , and I your handmaid .  Fair Sir , the Queen is pleas'd , and hopes you are  In her that 's so much fairer in your thoughts .  Ha!   And my Father noble Sir .  Your pardon , and for ever welcome .  And mine .  I ow thee a just reward , for I proclaim'd  To him that brought this man alive or dead  A thousand crowns ; but since thou art so fortunate  To bring him home alive and well recover'd  Out of such danger —  I 'l double thy reward , give thee two thousand crows .  It shall be to his honour ; welcome Alberto .  I forgive  All on my part .  And now right royal Sir , let me entreat  For former love , to make our last compleat ,  You will be pleas'd a month with us to stay  In triumphs to commemorate this day . 