 Or lie down if you please .  Not for a thousand pound .  Slife we are all undone then .  One for that purpose Phil , you ha' spoke the man , But what company has my Patronesse , that shee is yet busy .  As much as in man lies Phil ; Hee is a perpetuall vowd batchellor indeed , and as constant to his vow as to his fashion in apparrell , which is ever the same , sir Raphael Winter-plum .  Fy , thou speakst too much .  I expect him presently .  Shee may , living with the prime Lady-wit in towne .  Troth a Gentleman that lives at a good rate ; very civill in conversation , keepes good company ; yet none of his acquaintance that I am acquainted with knowes his beginning , or his present meanes .  I know no more but by his port , and fashion , you saw him with me last night .  He was at the Play with us too , doe you not remember that ?  Hold hold , I prithee hold .  Here comes the Gentleman .  Shee 's yet a little busy . We shall all instantly take the opportunity together .  Thou speakst as if thou hadst guilt upon thee ; fear nothing man .  Forbeare good cosen .  Come away Gentlemen .  Exit Gentlemen .   Yes , Patronesse , 't is he , who though not throughly vers'd , or conversant i' th' Court or City garbe , he understands both Men and Manners .  Sure you have been in some ill company .  I dare sweare thou dost .  I Madam you were speaking of the use you would make of Poet , Painter , Musick , Actor and the like .  Thou askest still a question like a guilty person , with a look resembling fear upon thy face .  Forbeare , they come .  Sir my affection leanes much to Poetry , especialy the Drammatick .  I am glad I speake sir , to your understanding .  And my project is that no Playes may be admitted to the Stage , but of their making who Professe or indeavour to live by the quality : That no Courtiers , Divines , Students at Law , Lawyers-clearks , Tradesmen or Prentises be allow'd to write 'em , nor the Works of any lay-Poet whatsoever to be receav'd to the Stage , though freely given unto the Actors , nay though any such Poet should give a summe of money with his Play , as with an Apprentice , unlesse the Author doe also become bound that it shall doe true and faithfull service for a whole Terme .  I have another sir , to procure a Patent for my selfe to have the onely priviledge to give instructions to all the actors in the City , ( especially the younger sort ) the better to enable them to speake their parts emphatically and to the life .  It seemes none of your Projects will passe with you sir Andrew .  We are your waiters Madam .  Exeunt Omnes .   But tell me seriously dost thou love my Ladies woman so well as to marry her , and suffer the Picture-drawer now to court her privately , and perhaps to draw and carry her from thee ?  Nay you are too severe .  Now he sayes something , yet , and may be curable .  You may safely say for Religion , King or Countrey .  Why if he will not fight for him he is no Subject , and no Subject no King .  Up to him man : wilt thou suffer all ?  What company 's that ?  Fight now or you 'l die infamous , was your Mother a whore ?  What! not to say your Mother was a whore ?  But were your Mother living now , what would you say or doe ?  Cause agen ! suppose that fellow within should take your wench from you ? which very likely he has done already : for I left 'em close on a couch together Kissing and —  I like a man , whom neither Lie , Kick , Battoune , scandall , Friends , or Parents , the wrongs of Countrey , King or Religion can move , that will , yet , fight for his  wench . Thou wilt be one of the stiffe blades o' the time I see .  What 's the matter Phil ?  A meere accident of madnesse .  If you believe this Madam , tho' sir Ferdinand be by his madnesse excusable in the attempt , you ought to be reveng'd upon the Doctor .  YOur judgement ( by your favour ) Mr. Doctor  Much faild you in that case .  But that drew on his fury ; and though reason  May argue much for you , shee can heare none ,  Nor any understand : The swift affrightment  Upon her strength of passion , struck so deepe  A sense into her , that is has depriv'd her  Of all her proper senses . She is even mad sir .  I 'le gladly ad my paines unto your skill .  Exit .   Here Madam may you see the Madmans Revels .  Keepe back sir .  Doctor , away with him .  Outrage ! Can you thinke of an outrage above the horror you offerd to this Lady , To violate her chastity ? her honor ?  That 's too high straind . What thinke you Madam , if to rectify his judgement , wee pick'd all the errours of his braine ; First , opening the Pericranion , then take out the cerebrum ; wash it in Albo vino , till it be throughy clens'd ; and then —  But will you see the execution Madam ?  Better by Law then you can the intent  Guelder whets his knife and all in preparation , Linnen , Bason , &c.    Of Rape upon the Lady .  VVhat a strange tale is this ! I can't believe it .  Prethee forbeare him : Hee 's not worth thy anger .  He never shall move me , I forgive him .  Forbeare and hear him Hercules .  Nay I must hold you then . How was hee comparatively your Pick-pocket ?  I know the businesse , 'T is about our Revells .  His cause was bad you know .  You ha' not seene her or him these two houres ; has not my Lady call'd too , and shee not to be found ?  By all meanes take her from him . What! affraid of a coward ?  Hee will serve the better to flesh him . And do but note his tiranicall rage that is the vanquisher .  O brave Cit , O brave Cit .  He turnes your words over to him .  Doe you observe ? Nay thou art too severe .  Beyond all expectation !  Come sir , come in with us .  Observe good Madam .  I have cast the designe for 't already Madam . My inventions are all flame and spirit . But you can expect no great matter to be done extempore or in six minutes .  Umh —  He writes in his tables sometimes scratching his head , as pumping his Muse.   Is he within sir , can you tell ? He 's too busie it seemes .  Can you tell me sir I pray , if sir Andrew be within ?  To Cit-wit as he mov'd toward him , Cit-wit Dances looking on his Feete , &c.    Very strange ! among what Nation am I arriv'd ?  Here 's one in civill habit sure will answer me ,  Sir may I be inform'd by you ? saw you sir Andrew ?  I have already from the forked top  Of high Parnassus fetcht 'em .  As I 'le instruct you .  There 's salt in this .  That 's a subtle one .  Or Fire , fire ? 