 ANd why this Gullery to me , good Ambrose ?  What , that there can be in the World an Asse  ( Wert thou a fool to credit it ) that would keep  A House , by way of publike Ordinary ,  For fashionable Guests , and curious stomacks ;  The daintiest Pallats , with rich Wine and Chear ;  And all for nothing , but all 's paid and welcome ?  J have heard  Of all the Mockeries , the Ape , the Ram , the Hornes ,  The Goat , and such tame Monsters , whom poor wits  Have sent wise Tradesmen to , as to a Knight ,  A Lord , or forrain Prince ; to be his Mercer ,  His Taylor , Semster , Millener , or Barber :  When those , that have beene mock'd , still sent their Neighbours ,  Till halfe the City have bee fool-found . Ha!  I st not some such poor trick ?  O Mr. Bridegroom , that stole the wealthy match ! How got you loose so soone ? J thought you had beene tyed up by the Loines , like a Monkey to the Bed-post , for a fortnight at the least . How does old Bumpsey , that Freecost Drunkard , thy mad Father-in-Law , take thy stolne Marriage ? I am sure he knows on 't .  What has he gi'n thee ?  What if thou spendst thy halfe ?  Hee 'l nere keep Covenant .  Wonder upon wonder ! Nam was telling one  Before thou cam'st .  Dost know the man that keeps it ?  That Osbright has been dead these many years .  There 's some strange plot in 't .  Judge thy selfe , Val , what can the mystery be ?  He tells me there 's no Gaming , so no Cheating ;  Nor any other by-way of expence ,  By Bawdry , or so , for privy profit .  Is not that gaming prithee ?  O! has he Daughter there ? Mark that Nam .  No gaming sayst thou ? Ods me , and they play not  At the old Game of old there , I dare —  Shee s too stale , is shee ?  T is above twenty yeares since he went over ,  And was reported dead ( they say ) soon after ,  In France , I take it : But , then , it seemes , he lived ,  And got this Damsell there ? Is she French borne ?  Shee must be seen .  What makes he here , trow , in the Temple Walks ?  I , Brookall , thrusting him out of his Land .  Where 's Brookalls son ? He had a hopefull one ;  And , at sixteen , a Student here i th' Temple .  Let 's try if we can fit him .  I le take the wind of him : You are well met , Sir .  They say you have a daughter you would match , Sir .  Pray be not angry Sir .  The worst of us has land , and may deserve her .  Though J assure you  We heard none ill to day : But very good ,  As that of the New Ordinary . —  Pray , is it true Sir ?  That your daughter 's gone , lost , or stolne , as you say ?  Look , look , what thing is this ? —  Yes , and its shadow answers it in Cornish .  We will have a bout with him : Who is departed , Sir ?  How , is she gone Sir ?  Good Sir , a little more of your Mare .  Gramercy honest fellow , thou hast wit in thy anger .  Yes , and perhaps , be there before you too .  Come Ambrose —  Exeunt .   Did not I tell thee 't was a Bawdy-house ?  That is the trick on it man , she must seem so .  Her Father deals for her .  Yes , and such Mothers too : The Towne 's too full of 'em .  Come , shee 's a Jugling whore I warrant thee ,  For all her Fee-fees , and her Laisse-moys .  Pox of her counterfeit Gibbrish I le make her speak  In plainer English , ere I ha' done with her .  He looks like such a Blade . Are you the Master here Sir ?  Each syllable he speaks bewrays him .  Your meaning is good Sack , and three years old .  To put you by your Beverage and your Bombast ,  I will nor drinke , nor talke of other thing ,  But the choice thing of things , your Daughter Sir .  Your care , no doubt , is great what will it hold ?  The Rifling Sir , I meane . Is your number full ?  May not a man put in Sir for a chance ?  May not we  Come it adventurers ? Here are twenty peeces .  And canst thou be so base to sell thy Childe  To Lust and Impudence ?  Nay , hold , good Ambrose ; you een now were angry  With me , that did oppose your faire Construction  Of this good Gentleman and his vertuous Daughter .  Good modest Ambrose ,  What do you thinke of this discovery ?  What can we make of this ?  Canst thou be so malicious , that , but now  Didst love this Wench so dearly , as to run her  Into the hazard of Correction ?  Stay : Here she comes , and the Pimp whiskin with her .  Do thou take him in hand . I le handle her .  Now Madam , twenty pound a man ! Nay do not  Coy it too much ? Your provident Father left us ,  To make our selves more known to you ; as your price  Is known to us already : Look upon us .  In France ? No surely , nor in Doctors hands  Since I was Placket high . Why ask you Lady ?  I meane  The price of three throws for your Maydenhead ,  T is twenty peeces . If I win it ( Hearke you )  What will you give me out of your grosse sum  To take it neatly off ; and like an Operator ,  Put you to no paine ?  Thou art a handsome Hyppocrite : And this  Cunning becomes thee well . I le kisse thee for 't .  T is not so good indeed ; nothing but kisse .  A little of tone with tother will doe well .  Yes yes . He speaks no French .  Owie par ma foy .  Easie ! Yes yes , I thinke you would be easie  To one that knew but how to manage you ,  For all the boast of your Virginity .  Me thinks you should . Come prithee leave this fooling ,  I know you can good English , if you list .  Nay heark you Lady , heark you ( still more mysticall ! )  Nay since you can speak English , I must talke w' ye .  Civill I swear , and private .  They go aside .   And you may be plainer .  Is there not such a project for your Maydenhead ?  This Wench amazes me . Could I beleeve now  There could be truth in Woman , I could love her .  Nam ! What discovery ?  And I have found ( I thinke ) a vertue , that  Might save a City : But let 's hence . We may  Conferr our notes together by the way .  Exeunt .   Pray Gentlemen forbeare : It is thought fit ,  Upon request made by a Noble Friend ,  Favouring his Person , not his quality ;  That for this time the Pandar be dismis'd ,  So all depart in peace .  Now , Mr. Hackney-man , if you have so much grace ,  Render due thanks ,  On both your Knees ; unless you hold it better  To kneele yet to the Pump : which you had done ,  My most officious Pimp , had not his pity  Prevayl'd against our Justice .  Didst ever pimp for him ? Protest by what thou fear'd most .  We have discovered the great Rifling Val .  We know the Jewell now ; the rich Comodity .  We 'll leave you till anon we meet at the Ordinary .  [ Exit . Ol. Amb. ]   Sir , by your leave ,  VVe come to sup w 'yee . Does your Rifling hold ?  If there be no such thing , tell us the Riddle ?  Let us salute her first . —  Salute , then whisper .   I vow , and do not lye to you : If I finde  Your Father so inhumane , you against it :  VVee 'll be your Rescue , if forty able sword-men  VVhich we have , at the signall of a finger ,  Planted in readiness , can fetch you off :  Do you approve ?  Now we are for you , sir :  You got with child , and then deny'd her Marriage .  Well Sir , your Gentlewoman !  What 's all this to your Daughter ?  Why , here are wonders !  Amb. Sir Humfrey Dryground . 