 If one should , your Lady has no Lord to call her honour to question , whose Knight-hood it belong'd unto .  My name is Swayne-wit ; and for all you twit me with the Countrey , I am a Gentleman tho' .  Thou art a baggage , and a bold one , I am deceiv'd else .  I would be further acquainted with you tho' .  Kisse long .   Have you done now ? You will have time enough for  Further and better acquaintance .  Thou art a Jackanapes of the basest tricks that ever I saw , for a halfe-penny . Shee 's your choyce , is shee ? Could not you let be tho' ? I ha' bin acquainted with thee but two dayes , and forgi' me for swearing , I ha' found thee beating ripe a skore o' times at least . Take heede I begin not now , and handsell your Ladies house , that is so much talkt on , and your Gentlewomans presence here with a fist about your eares .  That 's a great deale of money . I could find i' my heart to do 't tho' .  He sets my teeth on edge to looke upon him : He lookes so like a wilding crab , good neither for drink nor sauce .  Thou hast a verjuice wit .  Let him stand further then , and looke o' toe side .  What sayes he ?  Tother way , what backwards ?  I that ! If shee be long busy I will not stay , and shee were ten great Ladies , or one as big as twenty , for all shee is your Patronesse , must we wait out of our wits , because Chalivere ran mad for her ?  My Cozen Court-wit's question was who 's with her ?  Here 's a new businesse ! Fare yee well , pray tell your Lady I came not from Pensans to grow here .  Thou wilt beare up again .  There 's another humor I could beat thee for with all my heart , thou wilt speake outragiously of all men behinde their backs , and darst not answer Ba — to the face of a sheep , O I could pommell thee .  This wench has a dainty wit .  But what Dainty is that shee talkes on so affectionately ?  A Gentleman borne .  Forgi' me for swearing , I st he ?  Yes , that I was at the Play , by sure token and a sad one .  Now he beares up againe .  There he is again ! Art thou bound in conscience to wrong all men in their absence , till I beate thee into better manners ?  Ha , ha . Forgi' me for swearing , what a Spaniell's this ?  I that 's the thing that I would understand too . And why me of any man ? They say indeed shee is a humorous Lady , and loves to busy her selfe . But what are we to her ? are there not greater men , and Lords enough  for her to foole away the time with , but we must dance attendance on her humors ?  You will be medling still .  I there 's another of your cockscombly tricks , to answer any question , that 's ask'd another man , out with tho' .  So there he is againe ! darest thou abuse a noble Lady , in her owne house too ? I dare not now but beat thee .  I wish you mirth Madam . I come not as one o' you fooles to make you any though —  Offer to go away .   Forgi' me for swearing doe you mock me tho' ?  Sweet with a mischiefe ! How sweet am I ? I come  not as a suitor to your great Ladyship , I am a Gentleman of two hundred a yeare tho' .  No you are too great for me . Nor to your Mopsey without , though shee be snout-faire , and has some wit shee 's too little for me , I understand degree and quality , respect and difference ; and am scholler enough to know my unde and my quare .  Prattle for your selfe sir .  I that I would faine know if it be any .  Hearke how this shotten headed Cocks-combe prates ! And how he , that can indure beating , dares speak any thing , or abuse all men ! canst not give the Lady leave to speake tho' ?  Why — ( forgi'me for swearing ) what do you think of us ?  Give the Lady leave to speake tho' .  Yes , faith a little money to ; and make's your Fidlers .  Of action Madam ? who do you meane ? the Players ?  Here in your house Madam , I would be glad to see the Actors but I saw 'em at their own too lately : for I lost my purse there , no matter let it go . There was 15. pound in 't tho !  But first stay and heare my Lady tho' .  I must be something too tho' , must I not Madam ?  Still answering others questions ?  Thou wert in hast eene now to looke after the money ; but and thy Life lay on 't thou must stay to abuse a man behinde his back , who is a noble Gentleman thou knowst , and I have heard , yet ( speake in thy conscience ) wouldst thou not be beaten now ?  Will you heare mine though ? I am a Countrey Gentleman , young , healthfull and lusty . I heare complaints of barrennesse in the City ; and of men that cannot get their wives with child ; Get me but a Patent for 't I 'le undertake by my selfe and deputies ( provided that the woman be sound and handsome ) to make them multiply , and upon reasonable conditions : we will deale with the rich for money , and the poore for charity .  Is that a wise man's question ? you cannot tell th'o .  As wise a man as you may lose his purse tho' , as I ha' done my selfe in a crow'd .  Come out into the Garden here ; and let them talke within , I say he shall talke with her ; and his belly full , and doe with her too , her belly full , for all thou : an honest discreet Gentleman , and thou a coward and a cockscombe . Besides he has an art and quality to live upon , and maintaine her Lady-like , when all thy money may be gone . And yet thou prat'st o' thy two thousand pound at use , when thou and thy money too are but an asse and 's load tho' .  I 'le make thee fight , or promise to fight with me , or somebody else before we part , or cut thee into pieces .  It is to doe a cure upon thee , coward .  Why dost thou weare a Sword ? only to hurt mens feet that kick thee ?  Pray hold your peace . I 'le jowle your heads together , and so beat ton with tother else . Why dost thou were a Sword I say ?  What is a cause to fight for ?  Darst thou fight for Religion ? say .  I say thou hast none . Speake , hast thou any ?  La you . Hee 'l say he has no King neither , rather then fight .  O thou wouldst make a speciall Souldier now !  And for thy Countrey , I dare sweare thou wouldst rather run it then fight for 't .  Darst thou tell me of clowns thou cockney chicken-hearted whelp thou ?  Sirrah you lie , strike me for that now ; or I will beat thee abhominably .  You lie I say againe .  The wench thou lov'st and doatest on is a whore .  What then ?  Here 's a true City wit now .  Your Father was a cuckold tho' , and you the Son of a whore .  Deny 't and darst , say , was she not ?  Nay , now if I do not kill thee let me be hang'd for idlenesse .  Draw .   I care not — unlesse thou sweare presently , and without all equivocation upon this sword —  Well sir , now you shall sweare to challenge the next that wrongs you .  sheathes it .   T is well a cause may be found at last tho' .  A wench is a moving cause :  Unseen    Why dost not draw and run in upon 'em ?  A pox upon thee art thou down agen ?  Was it not you that caus'd it sir ?  Where , which way ?  I 'le breake it open .  Pret. Cit. his sword drawn .   A new way , and a very learned one I promise you ; to cure madnesse with a plaister of warme Lady-gutts .  Let 's cut him into pieces Madam .  And after that the Doctors Tragicomedy .  You must approach no nearer sir . The Goddesse  Is not so confident in her Divinity  As to trust you in reach of her .  They are enough to hold , and binde him too .  Swa. pulls back the Doctor .   Come you afore the Lady .  T is to do Justice upon thee O Doctor  Stirre , or cry out , or give the least resistance ,  And I will cut thy head off before judgement .  T is said , and you are guilty . Proceed to judgement Madam .  Pox o' your Albo vino , and his cerebrum taking out , that were a way to kill him . Wee must not be guily of the death of a Dogleach , but have him purg'd a safer way .  We will fill his belly full of Whey , or Butter-milke , put him naked into a Hogs-head , then put into  the same an hundred broken Urinalls , then close up the Vessell and roll your Garden with it .  Wee 'l make a Doctor guelder of him tho' , and my Lady be so minded .  Now Doctor you look heavily methinks ,  You shall be lighter by two stone presently .  Stirre not ; nor make least noyse  As you hope ever to be heard agen .  What must he be stript now ; or will letting down his breeches be enough ?  When this is done wee 'l talke w' ye , come lay him crosse this Table . Hold each of you a Leg of him , and hold you your peace Dodipoll . And for his armes let me alone , do you work Guelder .  You shall be deliver'd of your secrets presently .  Sweet sayst ? Thou art not I 'le be sworne .  No matter . I list not be no nearer him : no more wou'd my cozen had he my nose . But where 's Mr. Dainty and your finicall Mistris Phil all this while tho' ?  The Devill fright him next for a spurging , skitter-brooke . 'T were good you would call to burne some perfumes Madam .  I have forecast the way and meanes already :  Which we must prosecute with art and speed .  Good ends oft times doe bad intents succeede .  COme Sir , must I take you in hand agen ?  Tell mee that I know not ; and answer my questions .  Leave you by flim flams , and speake to the purpose .  To live and die a beaten Asse ; a coward hast thou not ?  Anger ! Is every Schoole-master angry that gives Discipline with correction ?  Didst not thou tell my Lady that I was a coward in my own Countrey , and Kick'd out of Cornewall ?  Pox o' your comparative lies ; And didst not thou say that he here was pepper'd so full o' the whatsha callums , that his spittle would poyson a Dog or a Rat ?  Forgi' mee for swearing I 'le make thee speake positively , or beat thee superlatively before I ha' done with thee .  Hold a little . Didst thou not say this child here was a Pickpocket ? and that he pickt thine of thy money , and thy watch , when he was singing betweene thy Leggs to day ?  Suffer a child to beat thee !  Incorrigible coward ! Say now ; art not thou thy selfe a pick-pocket , and a cut-purse ? say .  The conclusion is , that if ever I heare thou mentionst my name agen in any sense whatsoever , I 'le beat thee out of reason .  Not in your prayers sir , shall you mention me , you were better never pray .  And make thine Oath good on that slie fellow that has taine away thy wench , or —  Do 't then now , while thou art hot . Shee comes , here take , and keepe her while thou art hot and hast her .  How meanes shee by all faults ?  You must do 't or take the share , hee should ha' had a down-right beating . Forgi' me for swearing , hee 's a veryer coward then tother .  You will on .  Why dost not draw thou fellow thou ?  Forgi' me for swearing . Hee 'l beat 's all anon .  Good , I shall love this fellow .  Forgi' me for swearing a brave Boy .  All thought .  But dost thou thinke thou art valiant for all this tho' ?  I sweare thou shalt have it to keepe up while thou art up .  Now Gentlemen you know your taske , be expeditious in 't .  What matter i st so wee skip up and downe ? our friend Jack Dainty here , Mr. Cut-purse dances daintily tho' .  Her word in waggery is made good in earnest now tho' .  Stand further off o' my Pocket tho' .  Doctor can you dance ?  But shall we have no silken things , no whim whams  To Dance in tho' .  With some of her old Petticotes , can she ?  Here 's a brave shew , and out-shines our devise .  I this has some savour in 't .  Or women cry out five Loves a penny ?  Powers , Powers ; A lower house at least .  Our Projects would not take with you , wee 'l take yours tho' .  This Bride , Dame Venus here , cooles all this while tho' .  Shee 's a wise widdow by 't : for sure enough , she saw something in his mad naked fit , when hee put her to 't , to choose a husband by , wo' not out of her thought yet .  What is there more to say now Madam ?  But to Supper and to bed ?  We have had other pastime enough .  And why you now ? or you ? or you ? I 'le speak enough for you all , you now would tell the Audients they should not feare to throng hither the next day : for you wil secure their Purses cut-free , and their pockets pick-free . T is much for you to do tho' . And you would say that all  your projects are put down , and you 'l take up no new : but what shall be ( spectators ) to please you . And you Poetick part induces you , t' appologize now for the Poet too , as they ha' done already , you to the Ladies , you to the Cavaliers and Gentry ; you to the City friend , and all for the Poet , Poet , Poet , when all 's but begging tho . I 'le speak to 'em all , and to my Countrey folkes too if here be any o 'em : and yet not beg for the Poet tho' , why should we ? has not he money for his doings ? and the best price too ? because we would ha' the best : And if it be not , why so ? The Poet has shewd his wit and we our manners . But to stand beg , beg for reputation for one that has no countenance to carry it , and must ha' money is such a Pastime ! — If it were for one of the great and curious Poets that give these Playes as the Prologue said , and money too , to have 'em acted ; For them , indeed , we are bound to ply for an applause . Because they look for nothing else , and scorn to beg for themselves . But then you 'l say those Playes are not given to you ; you pay as much for your seats at them as at these , though you sit nere the merrier , nor rise the wiser , they are so above common understanding ; and tho' you see for your love you will judge for your money , why so for that too , you may . But take heed you displease not the Ladies tho' who are their partiall judges , being brib'd by flattering verses to commend their Playes ; for whose faire cause , and by their powerfull voyces to be cry'd up wits o' Court , the right worshipfull Poets boast to have made those enterludes , when for ought you know they bought 'em of Universitie Scholars tho' , and onely shew their own wits in owning other mens ; and that but as they are like neither . As thus , do you like that Song ? yes . I made it . Is that Scene or that Jest good ? Yes , T was mine ; and then if all be good 't was all mine . There 's wit in that now . But this small Poet vents none but his own , and his by whose care  and directions this Stage is govern'd , who has for many yeares both in his fathers dayes , and since directed Poets to write & Players to speak , till he traind up these youths here to what they are now . I some of 'em from before they were able to say a grace of two lines long to have more parts in their pates then would fill so many Dry-fats . And to be serious with you , if after all this , by the venemous practise of some , who study nothing more then his destruction , he should faile us , both Poets and Players would be at losse in Reputation . But this is from our Poet agen , who tels you plainly all the helps he has or desires ; And let me tell you he has made prety merry Jigges that ha' pleas'd a many . As ( le'me see ) th' Antipodes , and ( oh I shall never forget ) Tom Hoyden o' Tanton Deane . Hee 'l bring him hither very shortly in a new Motion , and in a new paire o' slops and new nether-stocks as briske as a Body-lowse in a new Pasture .  Meane while , if you like this , or not , why so ?  You may be pleas ' to clap at parting tho' . 