 Forc'd by you ,  Heaven knowes with my much sorrow . Such a Lover  So in all points deserving of true worth ,  And best indowments to make up a Man  That I shall never see — your pardon sir ,  Though you pulld back , by violence , my hand ,  In which my heart was freely given to him ,  It is not in your power or strength of art  To beat a sigh back , or restraine a teare  Which I must offer to his memory .  Love knows I do .  My love emboldens me to tell you he is .  Love weighes not that .  You but looke  Upon his outside sir .  Sir , he has Valour , Wit , and Honour , you well know  Hee 's of a noble Family extracted .  Sir you have given me liberty of speech ;  And may be pleas'd to let me tell you now ,  You aime at your own fortune , not at mine .  I would be playner yet ; beseeching you be not thought too lose in my obedience .  Your ayme has bin to raise  You state by Court-suits , begging as some call it ,  And for that end you left your Countrey life ,  And Lands too ever since my Mother dy'd ,  Who while shee liv'd with best of womans judgement  Which held you from that course of selling faire  Possessions to enable you with money  To purchace wit at Court . You pardon me ?  And for th' Exchange of a faire Mansion-house  Large fruitfull Fields , rich Medowes and sweet pastures  Well cropt with corne and stockd as well with Cattell ,  A parke well stor'd with Deere too , and Fishponds in 't ,  And all this for a lodging in the Strand now —  But doe I not offend ?  Your own fed Beefes and Muttons , Fowle and Poultry  Loaded your long boords then ; and you had then  Neighbours could boast your hospitality ,  And poore , that for the remnants prayd for you ,  Now all concludes upon a two-dishd table .  And whereas then you had a numerous Family  Of Servants and Attendants , out of which  For profit or for pleasure you could call  Your Bayliffe , Groom , your Falconer , or your Huntsman ,  Now sir , a Varlet Coachman , and Footboy  Are all your Retinue ; and for the Hounds  You kept , that made you sport and Musick , now  None but your project Beagles , that smell out  Where such a forfeiture is to be begg'd ;  Where one would purchase a Reprieve , another  A Pardon or a lease of Life Rope-free  For ready money : Then where Goods or Lands  Are found of men that make away themselfes ,  And so of fooles and madmen ; All to set  Your trade of Begging up , and still you beg :  But your own want of favour holds you back  From reaching any profit by 't , because  You beg by Mediators tongues , which you  Call Favorites , who reape the crop of all ,  And leave you but the Gleanings ; some small pittance  To keepe alive the itch of begging in you —  Still wasting your own fortunes ; till at last  You have no hopefull project left to thrive by  But to put me upon this suppos'd favorite  To beg for you when it is doubtfull yet  Whether hee 'l take me with the Dowry , which  Mine Unkle left me , though you adde your projects .  He is a wanton Lover , full of change ,  And at this instant singularly devoted  Unto that humorous Lady , the young Widow .  Shee is ambitious  To draw all mens affections to her service ,  And then abuses all by scornes or slightings ,  And this ( they say ) has made him almost mad .  I told you sir , the cause before ; and nam'd  That humorous Lady for it , whom in heart  I can no lesse then thanke .  I obey you .  Exit .   Alas hee 'l then meet Fredrick and divert him ,  I saw him at the window making this way .  Be not so cruell . Thou mayst live to love ,  And need the pitty of a friend .  You are my Kinsman ; and have bin my friend ,  Though you observe my father who , I feare ,  Has not a fathers love towards me .  You shall rule me cosen .  This was my feare .  T is Fredrick . I must see him .  So dos a heart consume in lingring fire ,  When cooling hopes are cast on hot desire .  Exit .   Most constantly . And let mee conjure you by this .  Kisse .   That you forget not yours .  And time at length will point us out a meanes  After a short long-seeming separation  To meet and reunite our vowes and faiths  With greater strength and fervour .  O sir you are unkinde .  Love then a wilfull father is lesse blind .  Exit .   Your acceptation of my duty sir  Is all that I can glory in .  Sure I am . If this be a true Coppy .  I beg your pardon , and your blessing sir .  Alas my Father . 