 Most crowse , most capringly .  Shall we dance , shall we sing , to welcome our King ?  Strike up Piper a merry merry dance  That we on our stampers may foot it and prance ,  To make his heart merry as he has made ours ;  As lustick and frolique as Lords in their Bowers .  'T is well if it like you , Master . But wee have not that rag among us , that we will not daunce off , to do you service ; we being all and onely your servants , most noble Sir . Command us therefore and imploy us , we beseech you .  He was a Courtier born , Sir , and begs on pleasure I assure you , refusing great and constant means from able friends to make him a staid man . Yet ( the want of a leg notwithstanding ) he must travel in this kinde against all common reason , by the special pollicy of Providence .  His Father , Sir , was a Courtier ; a great Court Beggar I assure you ;  I made these Verses of Him and his Son here .  A Courtier beg'd by Covetise , not Need ,  From Others that , which made them beg indeed .  He beg'd , till wealth had laden him with cares  To keep for 's children and their children shares :  While the oppress'd , that lost that great Estate  Sent Curses after it unto their Fate .  The Father dies ( the world saies ) very rich ;  The Son , being gotten while ( it seems ) the itch  Of begging was upon the Courtly Sire ,  Or bound by Fate , will to no wealth aspire ,  Tho' offer'd him in Money , Cloathes or Meat ,  More then he begs , or instantly must eat .  Is not he heavenly blest , that hates Earth's Treasure  And begs , with What 's a Gentleman but 's pleasure ?  Or say it be upon the Heire a curse ;  What 's that to him ? The Beggar 's ne'r the worse .  For of the general store that Heaven has sent  He values not a penny till 't be spent .  But lately come amongst us , but a very ancient Strowle all the Land over , and has travell'd with Gipsies , and is a Patrico . Shall he read your Fortune Sir ?  He was telling Fortunes e'ne now to Country Wenches . I 'll fetch him — 