 But when you shall perceive the wealthy sonnes  Dayly brought in , and be , continually ,  Troubled with the Receipts ( if you may be trusted  That have so little faith ) when you shall soyle  And gall your fingers ends with telling money ,  Yet find the lickings of 'em sweet , you 'l then  Sing other Notes .  What say to this my Lord ,  Touching new fashions of apparrell ; sutes ,  Hats , Boots , Swords , Belts , Ribands , &c.   For every wearer of his first o' th' fashion  To pay a groat to th' King ; and every Tradesman  Two pence on every severall piece he sells  Of any such new fashion the first yeare ?  This then for sucking out of cornes .  This makes amends for all then . A new project  For buylding a new Theatre or Play-house  Upon the Thames on Barges or flat boats  To helpe the watermen out of the losse  They 've suffer'd by Sedans ; under which project  The subject groanes , when for the ease of one  Two abler men must suffer ; and not the price ,  Or pride of Horse-flesh or Coach-hire abated .  This shall bring flouds of gaine to th' watermen  Of which they 'l give a fourth of every fare  They shall boord at the floating Theatre ,  Or set ashore from thence , the Poets and Actors  Halfe of their first yeares profits .  This is a weighty one : For massy summes  That may be freely given out of the City ,  To have but this assurance , that hereafter  They may ingrosse the getting of their own  Children : by order tane that Cavaliers ,  And Courtiers may no more invade ,  Or mix with Tradesmens wives : whereby t is thought  So many City Prodigalls have been gotten ;  Onely the thrifty countrey Gentlemen  To be excepted : for by them 't is guest  So many Citizens grow landed men .  What out of favour ?  What have you then to doe my Lord  In lieu of all your service but beg him ?  Come we will make quick worke of this .  My Lord you shall disburse but twenty pieces .  Trust me you doe not well to put my Lord  Off o' his benefit , by disheartning him  In this small venture . Will you then be pleas'd  To give us but ten pieces .  A dinner then my Lord , but of one piece .  This abuse  Shall lose your Master a hundred thousand pound .  I hope to live to see him beg of us .  Into the Garden , good , let 's follow him .  No now his superintendent 's turn'd away , wee 'l once more fill his head with millions .  Exit .  