 SHe 's gone . Amie is gone . Ay me she 's gone , And has me left of joy bereft , to make my mone . O me , Amie .  Cry ! who cries ? do I cry ; or look with a crying Countenance ? I scorn it ; and scorn to think on her , but in just anger .  Nay it shall hold . And so let her go , for a scurvy what d' e call 't ; I know not what bad enough to call her . — But something of mine goes with her I am sure . She has cost me in Gloves , Ribands , Scarfs , Rings , and such like things , more than I am able to speak of at this time — Oh .  I scorn it agen , and any man that saies I cry , or will cry agen And let her go agen ; and what she has of mine let her keep , and hang her self , and the Rogue that 's with her . I have enough ; and am Heire of a well-known Estate , and that she knows — And therefore that she should sleight me , and run away with a wages-fellow , that is but a petty Cleark and a Serving-man . There 's the vexation of it — Oh there 's the grief , and the vexation of it — Oh —  I 't is too true , too true , too true . You need not put me in minde on 't — Oh — O —  As confident as your self or any man — But my poor heart feels what lies here . Here . I here it is , O —  My Dove is flown too . Oh —  What she was , she was , d' ee see . I scorn to think on her — But I do — Oh .  Who I ? not I . Pray pardon my looks for that . But my heart feels what 's what . Ay me —  Ha ha ha —  He is in the same Livory-Beard too .  Ah —  He sighs .   Ah —  Sigh .   Sir , I should have had her , 't is true — But she is gone , d' ee see ? And let her go .  To Oldrents .   I am glad I am rid of her ( d' ee see ) before I had more to do with her —  For should I have married her before she had run away , d' ee see : And that she had run away ( d' e see ) after she had bin married to me ( d' ee see . ) Then I had been a married Man without a Wife ( d' ee see . ) Where now she being run away before I am married ( d' ee see ) I am no more married to her , d' ee see , then she to me , d' ee see . And so long as I am none of hers ( d' ee see ) nor she none of mine ( d' ee see ) I ought to care as little for her , now she is run away ( d' ee see ) as if she had stay'd with me , d' ee see .  I perceive it now ; and the reason of it ; And  how , by Consequence ( d' ee see ) I ought not to look any further after her .  Cryes .  But that she should respect a poor base fellow , a Cleark at the most , and a Servingman at best , before me , that am a rich man , at the worst ; and a Gentleman , at least , makes me — I know not what to say —  I know not what to say — What to say — Oh —  I cry you mercy , Sir .  But I do hear you though ; and I scorn to cry , as much as you , d' ee see , or your Nephew either , d' ee see .  Hang a Wife ; and Pax o' your fine Thing ( d' ee see ) I scorn your Fopperies , d' ee see .  Yes , I can hold , Sir . And I hold well with your Sack . I could live and die with it , as I am true Talboy .  And , Sir , I do honour you ( d' ee see ) and should wish my self one of your Houshold Servants ( d' ee see ) if I had but a gray Beard , d' ee see ? Hay , as old Master Clack sayes .  I marry do we , Sir . D' ee see , Sir ? And a  Hay , as old Master Clack sayes .  I will bear up , I warrant you , d' ee see , Sir — But here 's a grudging still —  Exeunt .   Well , Martin , for confessing thy fault , and the means thou mad'st whereby she is taken , I am friends with thee . But I shall never look upon her , or thee — but with grief of minde , however I bear it outwardly . Oh —  I , you think so , and I know so — But what I feel , I feel . Would one of us two had never both seen one another . — Oh —  Yes . Justice Clack's Clack go's as merrily as any .  Then have I nothing else to do , but to laugh at thee as long as I live . Ha ha ha — To let a Beggar cozen thee of her . Ha ha ha . A Beggar ! I shall die merrily yet . Ha ha ha .  A Beggar . Ha ha ha —  More merrily than you will take the finding of her . Ha ha ha — A Beggar ! Ha ha ha —  Players ! Let us go see too . I never saw any Players .  Exit Talb. Mar.    The Players are coming in : And Mistris Amie and your man Martin , are to be Actors among 'em .  That is my part to speak .  And must I hear it too — O — 