 Sir , 'T is duty .  Sir , your indulgence ,  I hope , shall ne'r corrupt me . Ne'rtheless ,  The testimony of a fair discharge  From time to time , will be incouragement  To virtue in me . You may then be pleas'd  To take here a Survey of all your Rents  Receiv'd , and all such other payments , as  Came to my hands since my last Audit , for  Cattel , Wool , Corn , all Fruits of Husbandry .  Then , my Receipts on Bonds , and some new Leases ,  With some old debts , and almost desperate ones ,  As well from Country Cavaliers , as Courtiers .  Then , here Sir , are my several Disbursements ,  In all particulars for your self and Daughters ,  In charge of House-keeping , Buildings and Repairs ;  Journeys , Apparel , Coaches , Gifts , and all  Expences for your personal necessaries .  Here , Servants wages , Liveries , and Cures .  Here for supplies of Horses , Hawks and Hounds .  And lastly , not the least to be remembred ,  Your large Benevolences to the Poor .  Now here , Sir , is  The ballance of the several Accompts ,  Which shews you what remains in Cash : which added  Unto your former Banck , makes up in all —  Here are the keys  Of all . The Chests are safe in your own Closet .  O , Sir , you know my suit .  Touching the time of year .  O , Sir , you hear I am call'd .  You thought I had forsaken Nature then .  Your reason , Sir , informs you , that 's no cause .  But 't is the season of the year that calls me .  What moves her Noats , provokes my disposition  By a more absolute power of Nature , then  Philosophy can render an accompt for .  You kept a Swallow in a Cage that while .  I cannot , Sir , indure another Sommer  In that restraint , with life : 't was then my torment ,  But now , my death . Yet , Sir , my life is yours :  Who are my Patron ; freely may you take it .  Yet pardon , Sir , my frailty , that do beg  A small continuance of it on my knees .  Yea , in the winter season , when the fire Is sweeter then the air .  O Sir , y'have heard of Pilgrimages ; and The voluntary travels of good men .  I do not , Sir . But pardon me , to think Their sufferings are much sweetned by delights , Such as we finde , by shifting place and air .  O how am I confounded !  Dear Sir , retort me naked to the world ,  Rather then lay those burdens on me , which  Will stifle me . I must abroad or perish .  Have I your leave , Sir ?  I am confounded in my obligation  To this good man : His virtue is my punishment ,  When 't is not in my Nature to return  Obedience to his Merits . I could wish  Such an Ingratitude were Death by th' law ,  And put in present execution on me ,  Yo rid me of my sharper suffering .  Nor but by death , can this predominant sway  Of nature be extinguish'd in me . I  Have fought with my Affections , by th' assistance  Of all the strengths of Art and Discipline  ( All which I owe him for in education too )  To conquer and establish my observance  ( As in all other rules ) to him in this ,  This inborn strong desire of liberty  In that free course , which he detests as shameful ,  And I approve my earths felicity :  But finde the war is endless , and must fly .  What must I lose then ? A good Master's love .  What loss feels he that wants not what he loses ?  They 'l say I lose all , Reputation .  What 's that , to live where no such thing is known ?  My duty to a Master will be question'd .  Where duty is exacted it is none :  And among Beggars , each man is his own .  Now fellows , what newe from whence you came ?  Thou should'st not think uncharitably .  Meritorious thou meantst to say .  But I aspire no merits , nor popular thanks , 'T is well if I do well in it .  Thou art ever repining at those poore people ! they take nothing from thee but thy pains : and that I pay thee for too . Why should'st thou grudge ?  Thou art old Randall still I ever grumbling , but still officious for 'em .  What say'st thou Randall ?  Well honest Randal . Thus it is . I am for a journey . I know not how long will be my absence . But I will presently take order with the Cooke , Pantler and Butler , for my wonted allowance to the Poor ; And I will leave money with thee to manage the affair till my return .  And if our Master shall be displeas'd ( although the charge be mine ) at the openness of the Entertainment , thou shalt then give it proportionably in money , and let them walk farther .  We will agree upon 't anon . Go now about your business .  I cannot think but with a trembling fear  On this adventure , in a scruple , which  I have not weighed with all my other doubts .  I shall , in my departure , rob my Master .  Of what ? of a true Servant ; other theft  I have committed none . And that may be supply'd ,  And better too , by some more constant to him .  But I may injure many in his Trust ,  Which now he cannot be but sparing of .  I rob him too , of the content and hopes  He had in me , whom he had built and rais'd  Unto that growth in his affection ,  That I became a gladness in his eye ,  And now must be a grief or a vexation  Unto his noble heart . But heark ! I there 's  The Harmony that drowns all doubts and fears .  A little nearer —  Most ravishing delight ! But , in all this  Onely one sense is pleas'd : mine ear is feasted .  Mine eye too must be satisfied with my joyes .  The hoarding Usurer cannot have more  Thirsty desire to see his golden store ,  When he unlocks his Treasury , then I  The equipage in which my Beggars lie .  How cheare my hearts ?  Exceeding well perform'd .  Thou speak'st most courtly .  Thou art a wit too , it seems .  Thou art a brave fellow , and speak'st like a Commander . Hast thou born Arms ?  Thou speak'st good language too .  As how , I prethee ?  I like his vain exceeding well ; and the whole Consort of you .  But what is he there ? that solemn old fellow , that neither speaks of himself , nor any body for him .  How ? a Prophet ?  How long have you had his company ?  If it please him .  Where shall I finde it ? but come , I le not trouble my head with the search .  You are A Iovial Crew ; the onely people Whose happiness I admire .  Where 's the next Rendevouz ?  At evening there I 'le visit you .  So , now away .  They dream of happiness that live in State ,  But they enjoy it that obey their Fate .  Did you , Sir ?  I have seen you too , kinde Gentlemen and Ladies ; and over-heard you in your queint designe , to new create your selves out of the wordly blessings , and spiritual graces Heaven has bestow'd upon you , to be partakers and Co-actors too , in those vile courses , which you call delights , tane by those despicable and abhorred Creatures .  But are you , Ladies , at defiance too  With Reputation , and the Dignity  Due to your Father's House and You ?  I have sounded your Faith : And I am glad I finde you all right . And for your Father's sadness , I 'll tell you the cause on 't . I over-heard it but this day in his private Discourse with his merry Mate Master Hearty . He has been told by some Wizard that you both were born to be Beggars .  For which he is so tormented in minde , that he cannot sleep in peace , nor look upon you but with hearts grief .  O , I applaud this resolution in you ; Would have perswaded it ; will be your Servant in 't . For , look ye Ladies : The Sentence of your Fortune does not say , that you shall beg for need ; hungry or cold necessity . If therefore you expose your selves on pleasure into it , you shall absolve your destiny nevertheless , and cure your Father's grief . I am over-joy'd to think on 't ; and will assist you faithfully .  I am prepar'd already for th' adventure .  And will with all conveniencies furnish ,  And set you forth ; give you your Dimensions ,  Rules and Directions : I will be your Guide ,  Your Guard , your Convoy , your Authority .  You do not know my Power ; my Command  I' th' Beggars Commonwealth .  I 'll confess all . In my Minority  My Master took me up a naked Beggar ;  Bred meat School ; then took me to his Service ;  ( You know in what good fashion ) and you may  Collect to memory for seven late Sommers ,  Either by leave , pretending Friends to see  At far remote parts of the Land , or else ,  By stealth , I would absent my self from service ,  To follow my own Pleasure , which was Begging ,  Led to 't by Nature . My indulgent Master  ( Yet ignorant of my course ) on my submission  When Cold and Hunger forc'd me back at Winter ,  Receiv'd me still again . Till , two years since ,  He being drawn by journey towards the North ,  Where I then quarter'd with a ragged Crew ;  On the high way , not dreaming of him there ,  I did accost him , with a Good your Worship  The Guift one smale penny to a Creeple ;  ( For here I was with him ) and the good Lord  Halts   To bless you , and restore it you in Heaven .  My head was dirty clouted , and this leg  Swadled with Rags , the other naked , and  My body clad , like his upon the Gibbet .  Yet , He , with searching eyes , through all my Rags  And counterfeit Postures , made discovery  Of his Man Springlove ; chid me into tears ;  And a confession of my forespent life .  At last , upon condition , that vagary  Should be the last , he gave me leave to run  That Sommer out . In Avtumne home came I  In my home Cloaths again and former Duty .  My Master not alone conserv'd my Counsel ;  But laies more weighty Trust and Charge upon me ;  Such was his love to keep me a home-Man ,  That he conferr'd his Stewards place upon me ,  Which clog'd me , the last year , from those Delights ,  I would not lose again to be his Lord .  Pursue the course you are on then , as cheerfully  As the inviting Season smiles upon you .  Think how you are necessitated to it ,  To quit your Father's sadness , and his fears  Touching your Fortune . Till you have been Beggars  The Sword hangs over him . You cannot think  Upon an Act of greater Piety  Unto your Father , then t' expose your selves  Brave Volunteers , unpress'd by common need  Into this meritorious Warfare ; whence  ( After a few daies , or short season spent )  You bring him a perpetual Peace and Joy  By expiating the Prophecy that torments him .  T' were worth your Time in painful , woful steps ,  With your lives hazard in a Pilgrimage ,  So to redeem a Father . But you 'l finde  A Progress of such Pleasure ( as I 'll govern 't )  That the most happy Courts could never boast  In all their Tramplings on the Countries cost ;  Whose envy we shall draw , when they shall reade  We out-beg them , and for as little Need .  Follow me , Gallants , then , as cheerfully As — ( heark ! ) we are summon'd forth .  Birds singing    How now Comrades ! repining already at your Fulness of Liberty ? Do you complain of ease ?  Not so well these 18 moneths I swear ; since my last walks .  Ha ha ha .  They have more moral understanding then so . They know ( and so may you ) this is your Birthnight into a new world . And we all know ( or have been told ) that all come crying into the World , when the whole World of Pleasures is before us . The World it self had ne'r been glorious , had it not first been a confused Chaos .  The greater will be your Reward . Think upon that . And shew no manner of distaste to turn their hearts from you . Y' are undone then .  I left 'em almost ready , sitting on their Pads of straw , helping to dress each others heads ( The ones eye is the tothers Looking-glass ) with the prettiest coyle they keep to fit their fancies in the most graceful way of wearing their new Dressings , that you would admire .  Indifferent well . But will you fall to practise ? Let me hear how you can Maund when you meet with Passengers .  Suppose some Persons of Worth or Wealth passing by now . Note me . Good your good Worship , your Charity to the Poor , that will duly and truly pray for you day and night . —  And even to bless you and reward you for it —  Let me instruct ye tho' .  What! do we come for this ? laugh and lye down  When your bellies are full . Remember , Ladies ,  You have not beg'd yet , to quit your Destiny :  But have liv'd hitherto on my endeavours .  Who got your suppers , pray , last night , but I ?  Of dainty Trencher-Fees , from a Gentlemans house :  Such as the Serving-men themselves , sometimes ,  Would have been glad of . And this morning now ,  What comfortable Chippings and sweet Buttermilk  Had you to Breakfast !  Peace . Here come Passengers . Forget not your Rules ; and quickly disperse your selves , and fall to your Calling —  Step forwards , and beg handsomly . I 'll set my Goad i' your breech else .  Have I not told you ? now begin .  Good , your good Worships . —  Your Worships Charity to a poore Crytur welly starv'd .  Good Masters sweet Worship , for the tender mercy of —  Good Worshipful Masters Worship , to bestow your Charity , and — to maintaine your health and Limbs .  Ah the goodness of compassion to soften your hearts to the poor .  Nor shew an angry look for all the skin of our backs . Ah the sweetness of that mercy that gives to all , to move your compassion to the hungry , when it shall seem good unto you , and night and day to bless all that you have . Ah ah —  Lord bless you Masters Worship .  Never in our lives trooly . He never begg'd with me before .  Never saw him before , bless you good Master , in all my life . ( Beg for your-self . Your Credit 's  gone else . ) Good Hea'ne to blisse and prosper yea .  Exit .   Would you be hang'd ? Stand back . Let me alone .  O do not hurt 'em , Master .  They be but young and simple . And if they have offended , let not your Worships own hands drag 'em to the Law , or carry 'em to Punishment . Correct 'em not your self . It is the Beadles Office .  Nor were we to take notice of his purpose more than to prevent it .  Talk not here of your gettings . We must quit this Quarter . The eager Gentlemans repulse may arm and return him with revenge upon us . We must therefore leap Hedge and Ditch now ; through the Briers and Myres , till we scape out of this Libertie , to our next Rendevous ; where we shall meet the Crew , and then , hay tosse and laugh all night .  Besides , if you beg no better then you begin , in this lofty Fashion , you cannot scape the Jayle , or the whip , long .  Stay , here come more Passengers . Single your selves agen , and fall to your Calling discreetly .  Stay first and list a little .  These are the young couple of Run-away Lovers disguiz'd , that the Country is so laid for . Observe and follow now . Now the Lord to come with ye , good loving Master and Maystresse , your blessed Charity to the poor , lame and sick , weak and comfortlesse , that will night and day —  Pray hold your peace , and let me alone . Good young Master and Mistris , a little Comfort amongst us all , and to blesse you where e're you go , and   Pray do not use me thus . Now sweet young Master and Mistris , to look upon your Poor , that have no relief or succour , no bread to put in our heads .  No House nor home ; nor covering from the cold ; no health , no help but your sweet Charity .  I 'll run away from you if you beg a stroak more . Good worshipfull Master and Misteres —  Alack for pitty . You may have enough . And what I have is yours , if you 'll accept it . 'T is wholsome Food from a good Gentlemans Gate — Alas good Mistris — Much good do your heart . How savourly she feeds !  Nothing by way of bargain , gentle Master . 'T is against Order , and will never thrive . But pray , Sir , your reward in Charity .  What! All this , Master ?  'T is a whole silver three-pence , Mistresse .  Bountifull Goodnesse ! Gold ? If I thought a dear yeer were coming , I would take a Farm now .  No , no good Master . I knew you all this while , and my sweet Mistris too . And now I 'll tell you . The Search is every way ; the Country all laid for you . 'T is well you staid here . Your Habits , were they but a little neerer our Fashion , would secure you with us . But are you married , Master and Mistris ? Are you joyned in Matrimony ? In heart I know you are . And I will ( if it please you ) for your great bounty , bring you to a Curate , that  lacks no License , nor has any Living to lose , that shall put you together .  But he is so scrupulous , and severely precise , that unlesse you , Mistris , will affirm that you are with Child by the Gentleman ; or that you have , at least , cleft or slept together ( as he calls it ) he will not marry you . But if you have lyen together , then 't is a case of necessity , and he holds himself bound to do it .  That I like well , and her exceedingly .  Aside   I 'll do my best for you however .  That cannot be purchas'd scarse for the price of your Mistris . Will you walk , Master ? — We use no Complements .  O , Ladies , you have lost as much Mirth , as would have fill'd up a week of Holy-daies .  I am yours for ever . Well , Ladies , you have mist rare Sport ; but now the Bride has mist you with her half-half eye ; and the Bridegroome , with the help of his Crutches , is drawing her forth for a Daunce , here , in the opener aire . The House is now too hot for 'em . O , here come the chief Revellers . The Souldier , the Courtier , the Lawyer , and the Poet ,  who is Master of their Revels , before the old Couple in State . Attend , and hear him speak , as their Inductor .  And shines as warm under a Hedge bottom , as on the tops of Palaces .  Come , hay ! the Daunce , the Daunce . Nay we 'll ha' the old Couple in , as blind and lame as they are .  Well hobled Bridegroome !  Set 'hem down ; set 'em down : They ha' done well .  Poet , thou hast spoken learnedly , and acted bravely . Thou art both Poet and Actor .  Agreed . Give us a Theme ; and try our Action .  I .  Where 's the old Patrico , our Priest , my Ghostly Father ? He 'll do it rarely .  That Patrico I wonder at : He has told me strange things in clouds .  That you shall be my Bride ?  Why what 's the Matter ?  We are beset indeed . What shall we do ?  Lord to come with you , blessed Master , to a many distressed —  Good Master , 't is a Holy-day with us . An Heire was married here to day .  Here She is Master — Hide your selves in the Straw — the Straw . Quickly into the Straw —  Into the Straw , I say .  Do you fear no shame , Ladies ?  Nay , since you are so resolute , Know , that I  my self begin to finde this is no course for Gentlemen . This Lady shall take me off it .  A Horse and six hours Travell would do that .  Here are the Keys of all my Charge , Sir . And  My humble suit is , that you will be pleas'd  To let me walk upon my known occasions , this Sommer .  I 've striven with my self to alter Nature in me ,  For my good Masters sake ; but all in vain ;  For Beggars , Cuckoe-like , fly out again ,  In their own Notes and Season .  And that must be your Course , and suddenly ,  To Cure your Father's sadnesse ; who is told  It is your Destiny : Which you may quit ,  By making it a trick of Youth and Wit .  I 'll set you in the way .  Now ! are you all resolv'd ?  You beg to absolve your Fortune , not for need .  Then , by your favour , Sir , this Maiden is my Wife .  She 's mine by solemn Contract , Sir .  Now , on my Duty , Sir , I 'll beg no more , But your continuall Love , and daily blessing .  A begging Epilogue yet would not be ,  Me thinks , improper to this Comedie . 