 ....  You must be Footman then your self Sir .  You need not Sir , now you be determined to marry , and live here i' the City altogether . And truly , Sir , she could never ha' dyed better , nor been taken from you ( as they say ) in a better time , so neere her journeys end .  T was unlucky to refuse Reynold Pengutlings money for her .  Pray bear it Sir , as they say — We are all mortall you know , and her time was come , we must think .  And grace og ( as they say ) it shall not be the last .  You will not talk to 'em .  Sir , as it were , because she could goe no further .  I would you had her all to do you good Sir :  she lies but a quarter of a mile beyond Brainford .  Shoes all behind ? I thought how wise you were : Come away Master . No , while she liv'd , she never wore but two behind Sir .  How can I choose , when they do nothing but make a foole of your Worship before your Worships face , and your Worship perceives it not .  There againe , another main mock : He would have him fall from a man to a beast .  Pray take 'em then , hee 'l ne're be wiser .  Why did you talk with 'em ?  What had you to make with 'em ?  Your Dog-tutor .  Yes , Sir .  Yes Sir .  Never misdoubt , your whelp 's right I warrant you ; for why , he could lap before he could well go : And at ten weeks old he could pisse under leg .  I le try the Market with 'em .  He tells you true .  You said so indeed : but if she had been tail'd to your Mare , I should have seen her sure , when I stript her .  J can never finde you any where , but jeer'd and laugh'd at , and are fool'd , ( as I have often told you ) to your Worships face , and your Worship perceives it not .  Why , to put you out of your pain ; your Whelp 's grown a tall Dog .  And a handsome Dog .  And h 'as learnt , besides the main Game , all the rare tricks and qualities his Tutor could teach .  Yes , and his Coat all over , sir , they told me .  See him ? No indeed , sir ; but J pray beare it as well as you may :  And set not your heart too much upon transportable things .  The Dog is gone , sir .  Stolne from Schoole , sir ; and sold to a great Monsieur ,  And Shipt away foure daies ago .  There 's a reckoning towards . 