 The old wonted news , Sir , from your Guest-house , the old Barn . We have unloaden the Breadbasket , the Beef-Kettle , and the Beer-Bumbards there , amongst your Guests the Beggars . And they have all prayed for you and our Master , as their manner is , from the teeth outward , marry from the teeth inwards 't is enough to swallow your Alms ; from whence I think their Prayers seldom come .  Thought 's free , Master Steward , and it please you . But your Charity is nevertheless notorious , I must needs say .  Surely Sir , no ; 't is out of our Curats Book .  It might be better though ( if old Randal , whom you allow to talk , might counsel ) to help to breed up poor mens children , or decayed labourers , past their work , or travel ; or towards the setting up of poor young married couples ; then to bestow an hundred pound a year ( at least you do that , if not all you get ) besides our Masters bounty , to maintain in begging such wanderers as these , that never are out of their way ; that cannot give account from whence they came , or whither they would ; nor of any beginning they ever had , or any end they seek , but still to strowle and beg till their bellies be full , and then sleep till they be hungry .  Am I not bitten to it every day , by the six-footed blood-hounds that they leave in their Litter , when I throw out the old , to lay fresh straw for the new comers at night . That 's one part of my office . And you are sure that though your hospitality be but for a night and a morning for one Rabble , to have a new supply every evening . They take nothing from me indeed , they give too much .  Yes : hang 'em , they know I love 'em well enough , I have had merry bouts with som of 'em .  They are indeed my pastime . I left the merry grigs ( as their provender has prickt 'em ) in such a Hoigh younder ! such a frolick ! you 'l hear anon , as you walk neerer 'em .  Then up rise Randal , Bayley of the Beggars .  Pseugh ! that will never do 't , never do 'em good : 'T is the Seat , the Habitation , the Rendevous , that chears their hearts . Money would clog their consciences . Nor must I lose the musick of 'em in their lodging .  I go . Bayley ? nay Steward and Chamberlain of the Rogues and Beggars .   Well , go thy waies . If ever any just or charitable Steward was commended , sure thou shalt be at the last Quarter-day . Here 's five and twenty pounds for this Quarters Beggar-charge . And ( if he return not by the end of this Quarter ) here 's order to a Friend to supply for the next . If I now should venture for the commendation of an unjust Steward , and turn this Money to mine own use ! ha ! deare Devil tempt me not . I 'll do thee service in a greater Matter . But to rob the Poor ! ( a poor trick ) every Church-warden can do 't . Now something whispers me , that my Master , for his Stewards love , will supply the Poor , as I may handle the matter . Then I rob the Steward , if I restore him not the Money at his return . Away Temptation , leave me . I am frail flesh : yet I will fight with thee . But say the Steward never return . O but he will return . Perhaps he may not return . Turn from me Satan : strive not to clog my conscience . I would not have this weight upon 't for all thy Kingdom .  Remember , Sir , your Covenant to be merry .  Here 's his Money , Sir .  I pray that I be charg'd with it no longer .  The Devil and I have strain'd courtesie these two hours about it . I would not be corrupted with the trust of more then is mine own . Mr. Steward gave it me , Sir , to order it for the Beggars . He has made me Steward of the Barn and them , while he is gone ( he saies ) a Journey , to survey and measure Lands abroad about the Countries . Some purchase I think for your Worship .  Mine is the greater charge then .  Knew you but my temptations and my care ,  You would discharge me of it .  I have not had it so many minutes , as I have been in several Minds about it ; and most of them dishonest .  O , I thank your Worship —  Exit .   My Mistresses are both abroad , Sir .  On foot , Sir , two hours since , with the two Gentlemen their Lovers . Here 's a Letter they left with the Butler . And there 's a muttring in the House .  I 'll be as merry as the Charge that 's under me  The Beggars , Sir . Do' e hear 'em in the Barn ?  By a most natural Cause . For there 's a Doxie  Has been in labour , Sir . And 't is their Custome ,  With songs and shouts to drown the woman's cries .  A Ceremony which they use , not for  Devotion , but to keep off Notice of  The Work , they have in hand . Now she is in  The straw it , seems ; and they are quiet .  Sir , you may spare the labour and the cost :  They'd never thank you for 't . They 'l not indure  A Ceremony , that is not their own ,  Belonging either to the Childe , or Mother .  A moneth Sir ? They 'l not be detain'd so long  For your Estate . Their Work is done already :  The Bratling's born , the Doxey 's in the Strummel ,  Laid by an Autum Mort of their own Crew ,  That serv'd for Mid-wife : and the Child-bed woman  Eating of hasty Pudding for her supper ,  And the Child part of it for pap  I warrant you by this time ; then to sleep ;  So to rise early to regain the strength  By travail , which she lost by travail .  She 'l have the Bantling at her back to morrow That was to day in her belly , and march a foot-back with it .  And for their Ghossipping ( now you are so nigh )  If you 'l look in , I doubt not , but you 'l find 'em  At their high Feast already .  Hold ! what d' e mean , my Friends ? This is our Master ,  The Master of your Feast and feasting-House .  I told you , Sir , they would be gone to morrow .  I understand their canting .  It is with me .  For now these pounds are ( as I feel them swag )  Light at my heart , tho' heavy in the bag .  Exit .   Pray take it not , Sir , before it be to be let . It has been my Masters , and his Ancestors in that Name , above these three hundred yeers , as our House Chronicle doth notifie ; and not yet to be let . But as a Friend , or stranger , in Guest-wise , you are welcome to it ; as all other Gentlemen are , far and neer , to my good Master , as you will finde anon when you see him .  Not so much , as the Stable belongs to me , Sir . I passe through many Offices of the House , Sir . I am the running Bayley of it .  You are deceiv'd in that , Sir . He has been out these four hours . He is no Snayle , Sir . You do not know him , I perceive , since he has been new moulded . But I 'll tell you , because you are Gentlemen .  My Master is an ancient Gentleman , and a great House-keeper ; and praid for by all the Poore in the Countrey . He keeps a Guest-house for all Beggars , far and neer , costs him a hundred a yeer , at least ; and is as well belov'd among the Rich.  But , of late , he fell into a great Melancholly , upon what , I know not : for he had then more cause to be merry than he has now . Take that by the way .  For he had two Daughters , that knew well to order a House , and give entertainment to Gentlemen . They were his House-Doves . But now they are flowne ; and no man knows how , why , or whither .  Was she your Daughter , Sir ? She was a young one then , by the Beard you wear .  This is right my Master . When he had his Daughters he was sad ; and now they are gone , he is the merriest man alive . Up at five a Clock in the morning , and out till Dinner-time . Out agen at afternoon , and so till Supper-time . Skise out this away , and skise out that away . ( He 's no Snayle I assure you . ) And Tantivy all the Country over , where Hunting , Hawking , or any Sport is to be made , or good Fellowship to be had ; and so merry upon all occasions , that you would even blesse your self , if it were possible .  And we , his Servants , live as merrily under him ; and do all thrive . I my self was but a silly Lad when I came first , a poor turn-spit Boy . Gentlemen kept no whirling Jacks then , to cozen poor People of Meat . And I have now , without boast , 40. l. in my Purse , and am the youngest of half a score in the House , none younger then my self but one ; and he is the Steward over all ; his name is Master Springlove ( blesse him where ere he is ) he has a world of means : And we , the Underlings , get well the better by him ; besides the Rewards many Gentlemen give us , that fare well , and lodge here sometimes .  No hurt , I warrant you : there 's a Lad walking them .  He will not be long a coming . He 's no Snayle , as I told you .  But of all the Gentlemen , that tosse up the Ball , yea and the Sack too , commend me to old Master Hearty ; a decay'd Gentleman ; lives most upon his own Mirth , and my Masters Means , and much good do him with it : He is the finest Companion of all : He do'es so hold my Master up with Stories , and Songs , and Catches , and t'other Cup of Sack , and such Tricks and Jiggs , you would admire — He is with him now .  Nay , marry I dare not . Your Yawdes may take cold , and never be good after it . —  Exit .   Gentlemen , my Master will be here e'ne now , doubt not : for he is no Snayle , as I told you .  Sir , my Master sends you word , and plainly ,  that without your Company , your Entertainment stinks . He has commanded me saddle his Nags , and away to night . If you come not at once , twice , thrice , he 's gone presently , before Supper ; He 'll finde an Host at an Inne worth a hundred o' you .  Thank your Worship .  I could ha' told you that . And the best House-keeper my Master is of any Gentleman in the County he dwels in ; and the best Master to a man , as I , the worst of twenty , can say for him , and would be asham'd to say lesse .  Forgi' me ! Are you so wise ? you are too young to be my Godsire . And I hope not old enough to be a Witch . How know you , that I am Randall ? were you ever at my Masters House i' Nottingham-shire , or at Dunghilford , where I was born ?  I was never twelve mile from thence i' my life , before this Journey . God send me within ken of our own Kitchin smoak again .  Master Springlove , an 't please you . There is not an honester Gentleman between this and the head of him . And my heart 's with him , where e're he is . Know you him too ?  Whaw .  Whaw , whaw . Know you that too ?  Whaw , whaw again . You know 'em all , I think . But know you where they all are ?  Whaw —  Whaw , whaw .  Whaw , whaw , whaw , whaw . — Why do we not go then ?  Mum — Will you go then ?  Will you go , Master Gentleman ?  Now , when it 's Supper-time did he ? to fill my belly with thin drink to save his Meat ? It 's the manner in Churls Houses . Will you go , Master Gentleman ?  Shite o' your Master . My Master 's Steward's a better Man . I 'll to him , at this Gentleman's House , and all the rest . Whaw , whaw .  Mum again then . Why would you not go then ?  Exit Sent. and Rand.    They were well set a work , when they made me a Player . What is that I must say ? And how must I act now ? Oh! that I must be Steward for the Beggars in Master Steward's absence ; and tell my Master , he 's gone to measure Land for him to purchase .  With all my heart . And glad my Part is so soon done .  Exit .  