 I should be safe with thee . But that 's a most lying Proverb , that saies , Where Love is , there 's no Lack . I am faint , and cannot travail further without Meat ; and if you lov'd me , you would get me some .  We shall be taken then , I fear . I 'll rather pine to death .  Our Cloaths , indeed , are poor enough to beg with . Would I could beg , so it were of Strangers that could not know me , rather then buy of those that would betray us .  Do you shew Love in grudging me ?  This Beggar is an Angell sure !  What is it ? Let me see 't .  For shame , ingratefull Miser . Here Friend , a golden Crown for thee .  I have rob'd thy Partners of their shares too . There 's a Crown more for them .  Fie on your wretched policy .  I would not have it so , nor make that lye against my self for all the World .  By inforc'd Matches Wards are not set free  So oft , as sold into Captivitie :  Which made me , fearlesse , fly from one I hate ,  Into the hazard of a harder Fate .  HEre 's a Wedding with a witnesse , and a Holy-day with a hoigh . Let us out of the noise , as we love our ears .  Well , Ladies , my confidence in you , that you are the same that you have protested your selves to be , hath so far won upon me , that I confesse my self well-affected both to the Minde and Person of that Springlove . And , if he be ( as fairly you pretend ) a Gentleman , I shall easily dispense with Fortune .  How well that high Ingagement suits your Habits .  I have past no affiance to the other ,  That stole me from my Guardian , and the Match  He would have forc'd me to : From which I would  Have fled with any , or without a Guide .  Besides , his minde , more clownish than his Habit ,  Deprav'd by Covetousnesse and Cowardise ,  Forc'd me into a way of misery ,  To take relief from Beggars .  And then , to offer to marry me under a Hedge , as the old Couple were to day , without Book or Ring , by the Chaplain of the Beggars Regiment , your Patrico , onely to save Charges .  He told me , to fetch Horse and sit Raiment for us ; and so to post me hence : But I think it was to leave me on your hands .  I saw how it anger'd him . And I imagin'd then , and before , that there was more in Springlove , then downright Beggar . But tho' he be never so good a Gentleman , he shall observe sit time and distance till we are married .  We have had all the sport they could make us , in the past passages .  And how carefully he secur'd all to himself , in case he out-liv'd her , being but seven yeers older then she . And what pains the Lawyer of the Rout here , took about it .  But at the Wedding-Feast , when the Bride bridled it , and her Groome sadled it . There was the sport , in her Mumping , and his Champing ; the Crew scrambling ; our selves trembling ; then the confusion of Noyses , in talking , laughing , scolding , singing , howling ; with their Actions , of snatching , scratching , towsing and lowsing themselves , and one another —  Enter Springl . Vinc. and Hilliard .  But who comes here ?  And me somewhat that I may tell you hereafter .  I will not tell you now .  Make but your Protestations good , and take me yours . And for the Gentleman that surprises us , tho' he has all my Uncles trust , he shall do any thing for me to our advantage .  You shall be furnisht , doubt not .  Unhand him , Sir . What Heire do you seek , Master Sentwell ?  Of me , Sir , and my company , I have a story to delight you : which on our March towards your House , I will relate to you .  We must fare all alike .  I dare not , Sir , deny 't , we are contracted . 