 You do me too much honour Mr. Cit-wit .  Gentlemen you are well found , I was a little stayd by the way upon receipt of monies . Ha' you seene the Lady yet ?  But Gentlemen ; you that have better knowledge of this Lady informe if you please , why are we summond hither ?  Ods so the Ladies comming I think .  I boast no skill or practise Madam : but I have drawne some pieces that have been worth my paines in my Rewards .  You rose o' the wrong side to day it seemes , were you in no crowd or quarrell ?  Then certainly there was a cut-purse amongst 'em .  What 's that sir Andrew Mendicant ? doe you know him well ?  My countenance is too blame then ; not my conscience .  In more private if you please Sir .  Sir I am a Picture-drawer Limner , or Painter ( if you please ) and would gladly purchase authority , by my selfe and deputies , for the painting of all the Kings , and Quenes-head signes for Tavernes , Innes , Ale houses , and all Houses and Shops of Trade throughout the Kingdome upon this ground that they draw and hang up their royall Images for signes in so hideous manner that men blesse themselves to see 't .  I am an Artist in that mistery sir , and have drawn some of his Majesties Pictures ( by coppy onely but ) so to the life , that Gentlemen have kneel'd to 'em for suites , and knight-hoods .  Yes sir , and great Lords I have pictur'd so powerfully , their own followers sodainly rushing into the room have started back and solemnly stood bare to 'em as they hung o' the walls .  I drew a sterne Judge , and a civill Lawyer so to the life , that after their corps were in the Grave , a man durst not looke upon their pictures without a bribe , or double fee in 's hand .  I ha' drawn Ladies too , with that alluring beauty , that men have loy'd their dead pictures , for their painted lookes , more then their living persons for all their vertues .  What cry was that ?  Yet he calld out for help .  Sir shee is mine by promise .  That shall be try'd by Law .  Beare witnesse Gentlemen he struck me .  What would you have sir ? If shee be yours take her .  Shee 's his he sayes ; and she denies it not , shall I fight against him for his own ?  Some other time sir , and in fitter place .  You see this Gentlemen .  I can take all this upon account .  I am discover'd .  Hold sir I pray ; Gentlemen so you will grant me pardon , and forbeare the Law I 'le answer you .  It is confess'd ; I am a Cut-purse .  Here is your VVatch , and Money ; And here is yours . Now as you are Gentlemen use no extremity .  Pray use me Kindly Gentlemen .  Sir at your feet I beg your pardon .  Never , till you pronounce that happy word  I pardon thee : or let me have some token  Of sweet assurance that I am forgiven  Which I beseech you — I beseech you grant .  I have it sit indeed , and as your gift I 'le keepe it , promising before all these witnesses , I 'le never venter for another .  I 'le make the Dance , and give you all the footing .  Practise footing .   I want a fift man , I would have an od .  I 'le borow a Violl and take it of you instantly .  Ex.    Pray sir , is sir Andrew Mendicant i' the house .  To Court-w .   And you all in the Dance imediately .  Come , come away to practise , and be ready .  Exe.  Om. Fidling , Footing , Singing , Acting , &c.    What if some should cry Murder , murder ?  He shall dance out of 'em : Musick ! Play out our Dance , we will disrobe you presently .  By Mr : Bride-groomes leave , I 'le stirre her blood a little for the good meaning shee had towards me . 