 Lend me your hand , Sir .   By this Palme I understand ,   Thou art born to wealth and Land ,   And after many a bitter gust ,   Shalt build with thy great Gransires dust .    By this Palme I understand ,  Thou art born to wealth and Land ,  And after many a bitter gust ,  Shalt build with thy great Gransires dust .  Toure out with your Glasiers , I sweare by the Ruffin ,  That we are assaulted by a quire Cuffin .  Is this the Gentry Cofe ?  Now , bounteous Sir , before you go ,  Hear me , the Beggar Patrico ;  Or Priest , if you do rather chuse ,  That we no word of Canting use .  Long may you live , and may your Store  Never decay , nor baulk the Poor :  And as you more in years do grow ,  May Treasure to your Coffers flow ;  And may your care no more thereon  Be set , then ours are , that have none :  But as your Riches do increase ,  So may your hearts Content and Peace .  And , after many , many years ,  When the Poor have quit their Fears  Of losing you ; and that with Heaven  And all the world you have made even ,  Then may your blest Posterity ,  Age after Age successively ,  Until the world shall be untwin'd  Inherit your Estate and Minde .  So shall the Poor to the last day ,  For you , in your succession , pray .  Sir , I can lay my Function by ,  And talk as wilde and wantonly  As Tom or Tib , or Iack , or Iill ,  When they at Bowsing Ken do swill .  Will you therefore daign to hear  My Autum Mort , with throat as clear ,  As was Dame Anisses of the Name ;  How sweet in Song her Notes she 'll frame ,  That when she chides , as lowd is yawning ,  As Chanticlere wak'd by the dawning .  Yes Sir . we of our Ministery ,  As well as those o th' Presbyterie ,  Take wives and defie Dignitie .  Exit .   By Salmon , I think my Mort is in drink .  I finde by her stink ; and the pretty pretty pink  Of her Neyes , that half wink ,  That the tipling Feast , with the Doxie in the Neast ,  Hath turn'd her brain , to a merry merry vain .  So so : your part is done —  Exit with her    I wish we had , in all our store ,  Something that could please you more .  The old or Autum-Mort 's a sleep ;  But before the young ones creep  Into the straw , Sir , if you are ,  ( As Gallants sometimes love course fare ,  ( So it be fresh and wholsome Ware )  Dospos'd to Doxie , or a Dell ,  That never yet with man did Mell ;  Of whom no Vpright man is taster ,  I 'll present her to you , Master .  See , in their rags , then , dauncing for your sports ,  Our Clapper Dugeons and their walking Morts .  You have done well . Now let each Tripper  Make a retreat into the Skipper ;  And couch a Hogs-head , till the dark man's past ;  Then all with Bag and Baggage bing awast .  May rich Plenty so you bless ,  Tho' you still give , you ne're have less .  Exit .   Alack and welladay , this is no time to play . Our Quarter is beset . We are all in the Net . Leave off your merry Glee .  Your Children's Fortunes I have told ,  That they shall Beg e're they be old .  And will you have a Reason why ?  'T is Iustice in their Destiny . —  Your Grandfather , by crafty wile  Of bargaining , did much beguile  A thriftlesse Heire of half the Lands  That are descended to your hands .  And , then , by Law , not Equity ,  Forc'd Him and his Posterity  To Woe and shamefull Beggary .  But our fore-fathers Debts and Crimes ,  Although forborn till future times ,  Are not so paid . But what needs more ,  I wish you happy in your Store .  Exit .   Since you will then break off our Flay :  Something in earnest I must say ;  But let affected Riming go .  I 'll be no more a Patrico .  My name is Wrought-on — Start not . But ( if you  Desire to hear what 's worth your best attention ,  More privately ) you may draw nearer me .  I am Grandson to that unhappy Wrought-on ,  Whom your Grandfather , craftily , wrought out  Of his Estate . By which , all his Posterity  Were , since , expos'd to Beggary . I do not charge  You , with the least offence in this . But , now ,  Come neerer me : for I must whisper to you .  You . Attend me , Sir . Your Bounty , then ,  Dispos'd your Purse to her ; In which , besides  Much Money ( I conceive by your neglect )  Was thrown this holy Relique . Do you know it ?  No , Sir . She died within a few daies after  Her Son was born ; and left him to my care ;  On whom , I , to this day , have had an eye ,  In all his wandrings .  Here with the rest of your fair Children , Sir .  I 'll be , withall , your faithfull Beads-man ; and Spend my whole life in Prayers for you and yours . 