 Exceeding well . Excuse me Gentlewoman  That now intreat your absence .  Here set him downe . Unbind him , and unblind him .  Ferdinand brought in a chaire bound and hooded , &c.    No matter what , let him run out his fancy .  You shall have all best usage sir .  With all best care sir .  You shall have all content the countrey yeilds sir .  If you 'l be merry sir .  I 'le finde you money enough .  All i' the Cards sir .  All 's ready .  Now sir , doe you observe the roote of his Disease ?  O you will move him .  I 'le Phisick you to morrow and allay  The heate of this strong fit , or Leach it out .  Crosse it not good sir .  Forbeare sir , you will move him strongly else .  I told you what you would doe .  Helpe here sodainly !  Wee 'l arme and horse you , since y' are so unruly ,  Away with him into his Bed-chamber .  Madam —  Madam , my purpose was not —  Mistake not me good Madam —  Madam , I seeke no counsell in this case , my cunning is —  Shee 's surely mad .  Mistake not so good Madam .  For my part Madam I am sorry we are made the trouble of your house , and rather wish me out on 't then your favour . But if your Ladyship will bee pleas'd to entertaine with patience the little I have to say .  First , let me tell you Madam , as 't is manifest  You were the cause of his distraction ,  Y' are bound in charity to yeild such meanes  ( With safety of your honor and estate )  As you may render for his restoration  VVhich of all the earthly meanes depends on you  If I know any thing in my profession .  True Madam : for a sight of you , shall more  Allure his reason to him , then all medicine  Can be prescrib'd .  My life o' that .  Now hee 's calme ,  Now shall he see you , but at most secure  And modest distance .  Help here , help the Lady ; help the Lady .  Doctor looks out above .   Your reason yet may plead  Mine innocence , that drew her but to visit him .  Not past my cure ; and by a present meanes  Pray , win her hither to see a madder object  Then is her selfe , and see how that will worke .  Come forth into the aire . Conduct him gently .  That 's a long journey sir .  I thought I had been a Phisitian . But sir  You shall not need t' expose your selfe to travell ,  Your Goddesse will descend into this Garden ,  Passe but time here a while and shee 'l come to you .  That 's best of all .  Carry him to his Chamber ,  And hold him down . His raging fit is on him   What 's her pleasure ?  What outrage doe you intend ?  You cannot say so .  I trust they cannot meane any such mischiefe .  They dare not doe the thing they would have me feare .  You will not murder me ?  I would I could pray now to any purpose .  You dare not use this violence upon me  More rude then rage of Prentices .  You cannot answer it .  That was not to have beene my act , nor was it done .  Hold , I have a secret to deliver to my Lady .  If I tell her not that shall give her pardon  Then let me suffer . Heare me sweet Madam .  In private I beseech you Madam : for I dare but whisper 't .  This Gentleman then Madam .  I pray what Doctor is it ?  O your pardon .  The Marriage is perform'd . The Priest has done his office —  And sing too , I ha' forgot much else .  What think you of this tune sir for your dance ?  Tay dee , dee , &c.   You have the tune right , will you instruct the Musick men ? 