 YO' have given him then his answer ?  Such stormes soone wast themselves in absent Lovers  When light of Reason , and good Counsell shall  Breake forth and shine upon 'em : and for your part  Daughter , I know it shall . And , presently ,  I thus begin to dissipate your errors ,  You love this Frederick .  You say he is deserving in all points .  Charissa , take me with you . Is he not  Deficient in that onely absolute point  That must maintaine a Lady , an estate ?  What can he shew you more  To take you with , then a wild head of hayre ;  A very Limebush to catch Lady-birds ?  A Tissue Doublet ; and a Riband shop  Hung in his Hatbands , might set up a Pedler ?  Can this maintaine a Lady ?  I trust you have not  Bin over inwardly acquainted with him .  What 's that a yeare ? those parts may be acquir'd  In winning of a strumpet . But what Joincture  Can he propound to you ? or , ( in case he dyes ,  Your Dowry being spent ) what personall Estate  I st like hee 'l leave you , but his Powder glasse ,  His Combe and Beard-brush , and perhaps a Trunkfull  Of Elegies , Raptures , Madrigalls and Sonnets ?  No let him goe ; discard him : and embrace  The hopes that I have for thee in the hopefull ,  Exquisite Cavalier , Courtier and Souldier ,  Scholler , ( and what not ! ) brave Sir Ferdinando :  There 's a Man rising in the favour Royall ,  And may in thee Charissa , make me happy .  I seeke no fortune , but for thy advancement :  All that I shall call mine must be thine owne .  Speake freely Girle .  On , on .  No , no , on still .  Shee speakes home and within me , to the purpose .  The noble Gallant loves thee , Girle , and holds  Thy Person and thy vertues Dowry enough ,  The Lady Strangelove ?  He mad ! believe it not : his reason is  Married to him better then so . How now !  Ha' you seene the noble Knight from me ?  How did he entertaine my Message ? ha !  Why speakst thou not ? what answer has he sent ?  So sodainly and dangerously sick ,  Where are my hopes ?  How I mad ?  If this be true I sinke , what is suppos'd he cause ?  Fy , these can be no causes to remove ,  To shake his settled judgement or his temper .  Goe , get you up .  And stirre not from my Chamber on my blessing  Till my returne , nor admit any one  Unto a conference with you .  They may come in : but as I feare they bring  Me little comfort , I am sure I shall  Afford them none . Now sirs , your businesse ?  Why honor ? why my Lord ?  How you torture me !  It weighes not all twelve graines .  No more of that .  I will not meddle in it .  No , nor your Perrukes neither .  Nor that .  Away with it .  Away .  Fy away .  To deale plainely  I doe allow 't in him —  And will heare him or any man oppose  All that is put to me by way of project  To put me by all further hopes in 'em :  For ( with hearts griefe I speake it ) he by whom  I onely hop'd to climbe ( alas ) is fallen .  No , out of his Reason .  Even he .  His greater and his nearer friends at Court  Will prevent me .  I will not part with any money sirs .  Not a penny .  Not a denier .  My answers cannot please you . Answer 'em you .  I am glad I am so rid of 'em , and now  As th' art my Servant and my loving Kinseman —  Looke to my House and Daughter , that she start not ;  Nor any entrance be allowd to Fredrick  To re-intangle her in his Love . I know  Thy vertue and thy valour can make good  My trust impos'd in thee .  I have but one ,  On which I 'le set my rest . Thoult say t is good .  T is the very same :  By which I will advance my house and name .  Exit .   T is thought you were the ground-work of his frensy  The Doctors therefore mov'd their honours to it  For that your frequent presence may be helpfull  Towards his care .  I must leave that to fortune Madam .  Pray of what nature are your Projects Gentlemen ?  Writing of strange Playes ?  Here 's a trim businesse towards , and as idle as the Players going to Law with their Poets .  You were best take heede in time then that you well preserve your own voyce , for feare you doe a spoyle among 'em in teaching 'em to utter in unsavory tunes . Doe I come hither to be mock'd ?  This is foolisher then tother . Doe you abuse me Gentlemen ?  I would have yours first , you see me a civill and substantiall Gentleman .  I like well his reservednesse .  I marry this hangs upon some ground . But are you an exquisite workeman in that art sir ?  Indeed sir !  I st possible !  I do admire you !  Thou boy ! introth you abuse me most merrily Gentlemen .  Goe .   Fie , fie . Here 's tithing indeed .  Enough , enough .  Let every man be wise enough to looke to his purse , and there will be no Cut-purses , nor need of your patent .  He puts me in mind of a crowd I was in once to day of company I lik'd not — ha — . For heaven 't is gone : And I dare not discover it for being laught at .  Be you merry with them good Madam , you know the serious worke I came about . In which  I sodainly shall presume to give you a re-visite .  Like you 'em Doctor .  Hee takes you for a Northerne Pastor Mr. Doctor .  Crown Gleeke sir , if you please .  High as you please sir , wee 'l find money enough ,  And pay us but our buyings .  I guesse at it , know you the remedy ?  This Gentleman is , and brings you remedy , be you patient .  No hee 's but silent sir , and it is well  That he is so , so long .  I hope he cannot flatter him into 's wits  When 't is the way to foole men out of 'em .  Your Doctrine dos not edify sir Raphael .  Patience good sir .  This now to me is Musick , Golden-chimes  That rings all in with an assur'd advantage ,  How now Sir Raphael ! Frighted ?  How Madam ?  Did not your Ladyship give way ?  I was no principle in 't good Madam .  Exit .   I 'le heare no more on 't sir , and am much sorry  That so much Lip-labour is spent already  Upon so vaine a Subject .  Give me leave then  To wonder at your light inconstancy ,  Your want of resolution : yea of judgement .  Did not you first promise  Ferd: Char. and Gab. aside   To give assurance of fit joincture for her ,  Proportionable to her dowry , which  You now are started from ?  O you are short sir ,  I meane to make her worth ten thousand more  Out of my estate in the mad Ferdinand .  Another ten thousand to redeeme my Land ,  Ten thousand more , I 'le keep in bank for purchace .  And so sir , as you came you may depart :  For 'lesse you bring a thousand pound per annum  T' assure upon her , shee 's no wife for you .  Thank then your learned friend , who fail'd me in  His undertaking for you , and for her  If walls and locks can hold her , she no more  Shall tantalize you .  Sir , in assuring joincture to her Dowry .  I shall climbe thither sir without the helpe  Of your Heaven-scaling ladder of Philosophy .  What in private sir ?  Ha! I 'le part you .  Was it for that you whisper'd , politick sir ?  And couldst thou stand their screene ? thou treacherous varlet out of my dores .  Darst thou expostulate ?  Thou death deserving Villaine .  Hurts him .   And Huswife get you in : you may depart sirs  Has your love blinded you ? I 'le lead you then .  Will you along !  THis is the day of my felicity ,  And is the same with that the Poet Sings  Is better then an Age . Come forth Charissa ,  Now you appeare my comfort ; and I can  No lesse then thanke thy sweet obedience  That hast comply'd with my directions ,  Bride-like and glorious to meet a fortune ,  So great as shall beget the present envy  Of all the Virgin Ladies of the Court ,  And a posterity , that through all ages ,  Shall praise and magnify thy act .  How are we bound unto this noble Lady  That sent us our instructions .  Let Musick in her soft but sweetest notes  Usher their welcome , whilst unto my thoughts  Musick   The lowdest harmony resounds my triumph .  Madam most welcome .  Charissa , go : be you his conduct , softly , softly ,  I see y 'ave brought a Priest Madam .  Ext. Om. Pret.    Incomparably judicious Madam .  And that care of mine  Was ( Madam ) by your favour  Principall motive to this great effect .  I 'd faine steale in and watch th' event of things .  How ! what of him ?  I st possible ?  He has left no estate worth begging , that 's the worst of 't .  My joyes come flowing no me — yet I would see .  The Gallants that were to day so merry with mee .  My purse ? ( I mist it at my Lady Strangeloves . )  I will not take it , 't was my neglect that lost it , not he that stole it . This is my day of fortune ; it comes home to me ; more then I dare receive . O my joyes , let me be able to containe you .  I have a purse ; which if I lose , I 'le blame my selfe , none else .  I 'le watch his fingers for that .  Sit.    It needs not , prithee rise .  In sooth thou hast it . Heaven pardon thee as I doe .  Fore me an expert fellow ; Pitty he should be hang'd before we have more of his breed .  I doe not like Thieves handsell though , This may presage some greater losse at hand .  I was thinking on the omen of my purse .  Court draws his Tables and retires to Phil , writes & sometimes shewes her .   Pray let 's go in and see how things proceed .  Goe back and be not seene till I come to you .  Ex. Pro.    What sir Raphael ?  I am glad on 't .  I hope you thinke mee a Christian sir , but how should he arrive at such a sodaine knowledge of it , if it be so ? I will pretend t is true , yes sir , he is in 's wits .  Has made himselfe away , I heard o' that too .  Not dangerously I hope .  How !  Ha!   O is it so ?  Do you move this for a dead man ?  Do you practise on me ? Madam where are   What hopes am I fallen from ? and what misery fallen into ; when the little I have is beg'd for Man-slaughter !  How couldst thou deale so with me ?  Dreames , dreames , All these are waking Dreames .  Am I of all defeated ; and by all  Abus'd and mock'd ? More roome there : let mee goe .  T is all but shew , Let go , and I will do  Something shall ad to your delight imediatly .  Exit .   Roome here : a Hall for a Monopolist ,  You , Common-wealths informers lead me on .  Bring me before the great Assembly . See ,  Fathers Conscript , I present all I have  For you to cancell .  This is a Patent for the taking of poor John and Barrell-cod alive , and so to preserve 'em in salt-water for the benefit of the Fishmongers .  This is a fresh one sir , For the catching , preservation , and transportation of Butter-flies : whereby they may become a native commodity .  This is for profits out of all the Common-Cryes i' th' City , As of — Oysters — Codlings — wood to cleave , Kitching stuffe , and the thousand more , even to the Matches for your Tinder-box , and all Forrainers to pay double ; And a Fee out of the Link-boyes profits . But no cries to escape . T is for a peace .  All all should pay . But I submit  My selfe to you most honorable censure .  And all my patents to be conceal'd .  True Gallants , and now I am my selfe agen ,  I saw th' event of all with good esteeme .  And would as well as you a Madman seeme ,  And now my blessings on your Son and Daughter . 