 I Am overcome with admiration , at the felicity they take !   How think you Ladies ? Are they not the onely happy in a Nation ?  Will you heare our motion Ladies ?  We are for any adventure with you , Ladies . Shall we project a journey for you ? your Father has trusted you , and will think you safe in our company ; and we would fain be abroad upon som progress with you . Shall we make a fling to London , and see how the Spring appears there in the Spring-Garden ; and in Hide-park , to see the Races , Horse and Foot ; to hear the jockies crack ; and see the Adamites run naked afore the Ladies ?  Will you up to the hill top of sports , then , and Merriments , Dovors Olimpicks or the Cotswold Games .  I , and if those means faile us , as far as our legs can bear , or our hands can help us .  Some jeere , perhaps to put upon us .  Or a Journey to the wise woman at Nantwich , to ask if we be fit husbands for 'em ?  What 's the conceit I mervail .  How they are taken with it !  They were born laughing I think .  If it be not some trick upon us , which they 'l discover in some monstrous shape , they cozen me . Now Ladies , is your Project ripe ? possess us with the knowledge of it .  And have kept all your councels ' ever since we have been Infant Playfellows .  You know how , and what we have vow'd : to wait upon you any way , any how , and any whither .  O , is that all ?  When ?  Some terrible business sure !  Beggars ! What Rogues are these ?  Stay , stay . Beggars ! Are we not so already ?  Do we not beg your loves , and your enjoyings ?  Do we not beg to be receiv'd your servants ?  To kiss your hands , or ( if you will vouchsafe )  Your lips ; or your imbraces ?  O , I conceive your begging progress is to ramble out this sommer among your Father's Tenants ; and 't is in request among Gentlemens Daughters to devour their Cheese-cakes , Apple-pies , Cream  Custards , Flapiacks , and Pan-puddings .  Current and vagrant —  Must you and we be such ? would you so have it ?  Course fare most times .  'Fore Heaven I think they are in earnest : for they were alwaies mad .  'T is but a mad trick of youth ( as they say ) for the Spring , or a short progress : and mirth may be  made out of it ; knew we how to carry it .  But the vexation is how to set it on foot .  Troth a small stock will serve to set up withal . This Doublet sold off o' my back , might serve to furnish a Camp Royal of us .  We want instruction dearly .  I will cut his throat then . My noble Springlove , the great Commander of the Maunders , and King of Canters , we saw the gratitude of your loyal Subjects , in the large Tributary content they gave you in their Revels .  Thou art a Despiser , nay a Blasphemer  Against the Maker of those happy Creatures .  Who , of all humane , have priority  In their content . In which they are so blest  That they enjoy most in possessing least .  Who made 'em such , dost think ? or why so happy ?  This is most strange .  But how ? But how , good Springlove ?  IS this the life that we admir'd in others ; with envy at their happiness ?  what ? what wouldst thou do ? I would thy Mistris heard thee .  Is 't possible we should be weary already ? and before their softer constitutions of flesh and blood ?  Ease call'st thou it ? Didst thou sleep to night ?  Nor the noise of the Crew in the Quarter by us ?  We look'd upon them in their Jollity , and cast no further .  Well : never did Knight Errants in all Adventures ,  merit more of their Ladies , then we Beggar-errants or errant Beggars , do in ours .  I hope we are as gracefully set out . Are we not ?  Away you idle Rogue , you would be set to work and whipt —  That is lame and sick ; hungry and comfortless —  If you were well serv'd —  Peace , they see us .  We are glad the Object pleases ye .  Merry and lusty too . This night will we lye togither as well as the proudest Couple in the Barn .  They are pleas'd , and never like to be weary .  A search for us perhaps . Yet I know not them , nor they me , I am sure . I might the better beg of 'em . But how to begin , or set the worst leg forwards , would I were whipt if I know now .  If I were to be hang'd now , I could not beg for my life .  What shall I say ?  After you , good Springlove .  That will duly and truly prea for yee .  Duly and truly prea for you .  Did not I say so before ?  Duly and truly pray for you .  Oh the Devil , must not we beat 'em now ? steth —  Duly and —  2.  Not you sirrah . The t'other . You look like a sturdy Rogue .  I shall never thrive o' this Trade .  Sir , I beseech you hear me . ( S'life what shall I say ? ) I am a stranger in these parts , and destitute of Means and Apparel .  Will you therefore be pleas'd , as you are worthy Gentlemen , and blest with plenty —  Out of your abundant store , towards my relief in extream necessity , to furnish me with a small parcel of Money — five or six peeces , or ten , if you can presently spare it .  I have spoil'd all ; and know not how to beg otherwise .  Quite run out of my Instructions .  Onely to make you merry , Gentlemen , at my unskilfulness in my new Trade . I have been another man i' my daies . So I kiss your hands .  Exit .   Sir , I have a business of another nature to you . Which ( as I presume you are a Gentleman of right Noble Spirit and Resolution ) you will receive without offence ; and in that temper as most properly appertains to the most Heroick natures .  You may be pleas'd to call to minde a late affront , which , in your heat of passion , you gave a Gentleman .  True noble Sir . Who could no less in Honour , then direct me , his chosen Friend , unto you , with the length of his Sword , or to take the length of yours . The place , if you please , the Ground whereon you parted ; the houre , seven the next morning : Or , if you like not these , in part , or all , to make your own appointments .  You shall most nobly ingage his life to serve you , Sir .  To do you further Service , Sir , I have undertaken it .  Your Mirth becomes the bravery of your minde and dauntless Spirit . So takes his leave your Servant , Sir .  Let 's beat his brains out .  He is prevented , and asham'd of his purpose .  More then ( as we are Gentlemen ) we would have taken .  What shall we do ? They are in heart still . Shall we go on ?  To tell you true , 't is not the least of my purpose , to work means for our discovery , to be releas'd out of our Trade .  Wouldst thou put Bread in thy Braines ?  No Skin to our Flesh , nor Flesh to our Bones shortly .  With them there is no Grievance or Perplexity ;  No fear of war , or State Disturbances .  No Alteration in a Common-wealth ,  Or Innovation , shakes a Thought of theirs .  'T is onely we that live .  They will never be weary .  We must do something to be taken by , and discovered , we shall never be our selves , and get home again else .  Well said Field-Poet . Phaebus , we see , inspires As well the Beggar , as the Poet Laureat .  Well grop'd Bride !  What a night here 's towards !  Let us each man try his ability Upon some Subject now Extempore .  And I your Country Gentleman .  Mary that I know not . One of us might do that , if either knew how to handle it .  Well : but what must our Speeches tend to ? what must we do one with another ?  Here 's enough of us , I think . What must the Beggar do ?  You begin scurvily .  I hope we shall be taken .  Hill . Duly and truly pray for you .  No , good Springlove . The Ladies and we are agreed now to draw Stakes , and play this lowsie Game no further .  If , Springlove , thou could'st post now to thy Tyring-house , and fetch all our Cloaths , we might get off most neatly .  Th' assurance of your Loves hath ingag'd us   Your Inspection 's good , Sir . 