 First take my execration with thee , Monster .  Hell sends by mee this commendation to thee ,  That thou hast there a most deserved Possession ,  That gapes to entertain thee .  Himself , and his Posterity must all  Sink unavoydably to hell .  No Sir : it was by Law he made the purchase .  And by his Son-in-Law , or out-law'd , down he must :  If he set ventrous foot , as his Inheritor ,  Upon the mould , was got by his oppression .  No , wretch , thou canst not ,  Nor fly out of the reach of my fell curses ,  That freedome ( being all that thou hast left me )  Thou canst not rob me of .  Thou canst not be so just sure , to exchange  Thine own inheritance for mine .  Good child I thanke thee : Thou hast somewhat eas'd  My pensive heart by his vexation :  She spake as Divination had inspir'd her  With knowledge of my wrongs , and his oppression ,  To take my part : Take thou a blessing for t  Who ere thou art , whilst I recalculate  The miseries of a distressed man ,  Cast out of all . Unhappy chance of Law !  More false and mercilesse then Dice or Strumpets ;  That hast into thy Hydra-throated mawe  Gulp'd up my lives supportance ; left me nothing ;  Not means for one dayes sustenance , for breath  To cry thy cruelty before my death .  That Law , once called sacred , and ordain'd  For safety and reliefe to innocence ,  Should live to be accurs'd in her succession ,  And now be stil'd Supportresse of oppression ;  Ruine of Families , past the bloody rage  Of Rape or Murder : All the crying sins  Negotiating for Hell in her wild practise .  An Oath ? for what ?  I guesse you some Attorney : Do you know me ?  He takes me for a common Bail ; a Knight o' th Post ,  Thou art a villaine , and crop-ear'd I doubt not :  What , dar'st thou say , thou seest upon me , that —  Can I appear so wretched ? or can grief  So soile the face of poverty , which is vertue ,  To make it seem that Monster Perjury ?  Rather let sorrow end me all at once ,  Then vertue be misconstrued in my looks ,  Which I will hide from such interpretation .  He lies on his face .   I desir'd you  To seek my son . Ha' you found him at his Chamber ?  Or has not want of fatherly supplies  ( VVhich heaven knowes I am robb'd of ) thrust him out  Of Commons , to the Common VVorld for succour ?  Where is he , have you found him ?  Hee 's dead then , farewell my tender boy !  Phew —  You 'll tell me , man nere dies ; But changeth Life ,  And happily for a better . He is happiest  That goes the right way soonest : Nature sent us  All naked hither ; and all the Goods we had  We onely took on Credit with the World .  And that the best of men are but meer borrowers :  Though some take longer day . Sir , J know all  Your Arguments of Consolation —  In Heaven .  J am the surer on 't ; for that he liv'd  Not to learn Law enough , to — hush . No more .  Speak that again .  How thou playest with me !  My losses , wrongs , and sorrowes , speak my name .  And do not you infer by that he 's dead ?  Good , do not mock me , sir .  Pray , sir , from whence , or where might he atchieve  So great a Sum ? Not in this World , J feare .  A handsome possibility he had once ,  Could J ha' kept it for him .  Do you think the Boy did well to send it me then :  When t was intended for his Masters honour ,  To flye in Silks and Feathers ? T is not Servant like  To wave a Masters meaning so .  VVhat from my Boy ?  Ha! — but mislay'd , you say . Ha , ha , ha , —  VVhat is the Gentleman ? Or whither travell'd ?  Keep your money .  If you can render me my Son , I le thank you .  J speak more like a Father , then a Beggar :  Although no Beggar poorer . And J feare ,  J am no Father : for J would not give  My Son to gain a Province , nor except  This Coyne to save my life : If he be lost ,  Let me look neerer on you , sir .  J cannot remember ,  J ever saw this face : But J have seen  ( Many yeares since ) one , that it so resembles ,  As J could spit defiance on 't —  And charge thee with the Murther of my Son   Your name is Valentine .  Sir Humphrey Drygrounds Son :  Even so thy Father look'd , when , at like years  He was my Rivall : For young man , I tell thee  Thou hadst a virtuous , well deserving Mother .  He won her without losse of my known Friend-ship :  But , since her death , you cannot but have heard ,  He basely wrong'd my Sister , and , in her ,  Mee , and my Family : Whor'd her , and cast her off ,  On the appointed Marriage day .  You cannot but have heard on 't . Nay , it seems ,  My Boy has charg'd thee with 't , before his yeares  Could warrant his ability in Combate ,  And so is fallen ; Or thou , not daring stand  Tryall in such a cause , by treachery  Hast cut him off ; And com'st to make thy peace :  Presuming on my Poverty , with money .  Worse then the base Attornies Project this !  The Law ; Ha , ha , ha .  Talk not to me of Law , Law 's not my Friend .  Law is a Fatall to me , as your house .  I have enough of Law ; pray stand you off .  Will you , sir , furnish me , but with a Sword ;  And bring me to fit ground to end this difference ?  Will you do so , and like a Gentleman ?  Talk not to me of Law .  [ He fenceth . ]   Now sir , your wil before your end Be briefe .  Pray stand you off — to Friendly .  Silent , as nothing were —  By the Sword , no otherwise .  No whinnelling satisfaction .  Go set thy house in order . Here I le meet thee ,  Exit .   These walks afford to miserable man ,  Undone by Suits , leave , yet , to sit , or go ,  Though in a ragged one ; and look upon  The Giants , that over-threw him : Though they strut  [ Lawyers and others pass over the Stage . ]   And are swolne bigger by his emptiness .  T was here , that we appointed , further meeting .  The two houres respited are almost run :  And he engag'd his honour in such tearmes ,  As I presume he 'll come . Honour ! From whence  Can he derive that Princely attribute ,  VVhose Father has descended to a Villany ?  His house was Noble though : and this young man  Had a right virtuous Mother , whom I lov'd ,  Intirely lov'd : and was in Competition  For marriage with her ; when high Providence  Allotted her to him ; who since her Death ,  Defam'd my Sister , and disgrac'd our house .  My quarrell is not good against his Son  For that : But for my Boy ! His doubtfull talk  Of him distracts me .  VVere his eyes Basiliskes ; or did he beare  Upon his hellish Countenance the faces  Of all the Furies ( that no doubt attend him )  I le shun no place for him . Are they acquainted ?  O most prodigious !  How is that ? —  [ aside . ]   Can he speak thus to him ?  [ aside . ]   I like this well in the young man ▪ —  [ aside . ]   Brave young fellow !  Not so : It must be amplified a little further .  You sayd , and you sayd well ; His tainted wealth ,  Got by corruption , kept by niggardise ,  Must flye as ill , through Luxury and Riot :  I add , that they who get it so , shall leave it ,  To run at the like waste , through their succession  Even to the Worlds end : t is not one age ,  Though spent in prayers , can expiate the wrong  Such an estate was gotten by , though the estate  Be , to a doyt , spent with it : But it shall  Fly like a fatall scourge , through hand to hand ;  Through Age to Age , frighted by Orphans crys ,  And Widows tears , the groanes and Lamentations ,  Of oppressed Prisoners , mingled with the curses  Of hunger-bitten Labourers , whose very sweat  Thou robst them of : this charming noise is up  Of many sad , some mad afflicted wretches ,  Whose marrow thou hast suck'd ; and from whose bowels ,  The nourishment was crushd that fed thee , and  That ravenous Wolfe , thy conscience .  This noyse , I say , of hideous cryes and curses ,  That follows thine estate , will not be layd  In thy deare life time ; nor in theirs , the strangers ,  That must be curs'd with the division  Of it , when thou art gone : But , still , it shall  Pursue , to all succeeding times , all those ,  That entertaine least parcels of thy money ,  When they shall finde at best , it can but buy  Disgrace , diseases , overthrows at Law ,  And such deare punishments ; untill , at last ,  All hands , affrighted with the touch of it ,  Shall let it fall to earth ; where it shall sinke  And run into a veyne of Ore , shall reach —  To Hell . And they , that shall , hereafter , dig it ,  Hundreds of Ages hence , must all compound  With the grand Lord o' th Soyle , the Devill , for 't .  Now Sir , you may instruct the Usurer , to make use  Of all he has heard , while I avoyd his sight ;  Heaven knows I am sick on 't : you forget me Sir .  Yonder he is , still , busie .  GOod Childe , thy tale is pittifull ; yet it sorts  So with the fell condition of my Fortune ,  That J crave more of it .  J prithee keep  Thy Money Child ; and forwards with thy story .  Thou saydst thy Mother was a Gentlewoman .  Thou saydst , thou thoughtst , thy Father was a Knight .  How thinkst thou he could lye then , so abuse  A Virgine of that goodnesse , as it seemes  Shee , that by him became thy Mother , was .  Peace , stay a little :  How came thy Mother to decline her spirit  So low , as thus to suffer thee to beg ?  Thou say'st thy Mother never would reveale  To thee , or any one , her Birth , or Fortune .  Answer me , prethee , how dost thou collect  Th' hadst such a Father ? Or that he has thus  Wrong'd thy poore Mother , by not marrying her ?  The sharpness of the Aire  Strikes on mine eyes a little . Prethee say .  Oh my heart !  This comes so neer a Miracle ; that my faith  I feare is staggering . How got'st , thou this paper ?  Mine eyes , are now , too full indeed ; I cannot .  Prethee forbeare me good wench but a little .  This I fear'd ,  And charg'd the plain way . But 't shall not serve .  Prethee who would not ? This is another case   Your money ' wou'ld hang me , Sir . Your life 's not worth it .  How know I that ? Or that I have a Son  By thee unmurther'd .  If it be not ,  Much chang'd , and lately , here is that wil match .  My wonder now , is , how thou canst be Son  Of such a Father ! Thou art honest sure .  Here is your Sword , I will accept the money .  Your Sword again .  Now , I profess to you , I have present need on 't ,  And am as strict , Sir , for my right , as I  Before was to decline it .  How is that ?  O fie , O fie !  Read that , and guesse whose deed 't is . Stand off Girle .  Speak low : is that your Fathers hand ?  Along with me then . Girle , lead you the way .  Shew us to your Mother .  I le save thee blamelesse .  Means he not mee ?  Was this thy Journey into France my Boy ?  High Providence hath made it good . But tell mee ,  Was Love your chiefe Instructor to this Marriage ?  Turne this way for a blessing then my Daughter ,  And with a Brothers Love I now salute you . 