 But Vermine has a daughter may prove good ,  T is the first newes we heard on 't .  Then the good successe  This Gentleman had lately with a wife —  May we report it after you , good Sir ?  It speaks , me-thinks .  Skipkennell , you shall turn Footman , now , Skipkennell .  I 'le nere keep horse more —  No nor Mare neither .  Was it well done of her , dost thinke , to die  to day upon the way , when she had been i' my purse to morrow in Smithfield : Poor fool , I think she dyed for grief I would ha' sold her .  Would I had taken 't now : and she had not dyed mine own , 't would nere have griev'd me .  And 't had not been the first losse that ere I had in my life , I could ha' born it .  I would thou couldst ascertain me that ; but mischiefes are taild to one another , and I must grieve as well for the what 's to come , as the departed .  My Mare , my Mare Sir : 'T was the prettiest  Tit — But she is gone —  Sirrah , answer not the Gentleman so snappishly .  Give me the shoon ; let 'em go I say , I will have 'em .  These were her shoon Gentlemen , I 'le keep 'em for her sake , that little Tit , my little poor Gonhelly , that would have carried me on this little iron from Pensans to S. Columb on a day . And that 's a way would try a stumbler you 'l say , if you know it .  Od Gentlemen , me-thinks   True , wee have other matters to think on : Your first course Trebasco , after we come to our lodging , shall be to Turnbull-street , to the Cobler ,  Yes , and see how my whelp proves , I put to him last Term .  And know of him what Gamesters came to the Ponds now adayes , and what good dogs .  And ask him — Dost thou heare ? If he ha' not done away his own dog yet , Blackswan with the white foot ? If I can but purchase him , and my own whelp prove right , I will be Duke of the Ducking-pond .  He was a fine forward Puppy , true enough : But and that be a signe of short life , and he should peak away after my Mare now — Here , prethee take her shoon againe : What should I keep 'em for ? They put me too much in mind of mortality , do 'em away , make money of 'em , and I le convert it into a Dog-Collar —  See my Aldermanicall Father-in-Law ! How d' yee do Sir ? I am come . I keep my day you see before I am a Cittiner among you . How does my best belov'd I pray , your daughter ? You do not speak me-thinks .  This is abhomination ! What Inn ? and what old iron ? I came at no Inne to day , nor touch old Iron , but that with sorrow enough , my poore Mares shoes , she left me at her sad decease to Brainford . I had rather ha' lost the best part of five Mark J wusse : From whence I came by water , landed here at the Temple , to leave a Letter to a kinsmans chamber , now right as sure as can be . Say Trebasco .  But is your daughter gone ?  All ill go with her : Did not I say I should hear of more mischief , and that one was ever tail'd to another ?  Why then , you will not seeke her out to day ?  Although me-thinks the day might serve as well  To find her , as to lose her , if luck serve .  Who 's this , a Conjurer that knowes hell so ?  If you can conjure ,  Here 's money to be got Sir , but to tell us  What may be now betid of this mans daughter ?  You are most deeply read ! May not a Son-in-Law —  Pray Sir , may not  A Son-in-Law escape in your opinion ?  Pretty mad reason me-thinks ; where 's that  Land ?  Have you made  A purchase there too , Father-Law that should be ?  It is the prettiest merry Beggar .  O rare Beggar-wench !  Lawyers and others passe over the Stage as conferring by two and two .   Shee makes a youth of me .  Yes , let 's away , t is time , she begs of mee now .  J pray , if my man aske for mee , send him to me , by your Masters leave . By your leave Sir , I made bold to follow a Father-in-Law of mine that should have been , into your house here , with much ado to find it . Any good newes Sir yet ? Ha' you heard of her ? J cry these Ladies mercy ; though you may take me for a Clowne , J must not forget I am a Knight , and give you the curtesie of my lips —  It seems she 's lost then . All ill go with her .  Your warrant , perhaps , may find her though .  And J tell you what .  J ha' sent my man to lay the Ducking Ponds for her .  Who knowes what toy might take her ? Is she not a woman , as other flesh and blood is ? I had another occasion to one that belongs to the Ponds . I tell you as a Friend , I had not sent els : Come Father-in-Law that should have been ; hang sorrow . You have had but one Losse to day . I have had two . I le gi 't you in Rhime .  My Mare and my Mistresse I lost on a day ,  T'one of 'em dyed , and t'other ran away .  Truly but one that 's a Gamster amongst us at the ducking Pond ; a Cobler , but the neatest Fellow at Poetry , that ever was handicrafts-man ; & no Scholler , to enable him by learning , to borrow of the Ancients : Yet he is a Translator too . And he makes the sweetest Posies for Privie-houses .  I le tell yee Ladies — O Trebasco . Good newes at last I hope .  To the point , man . How does my Whelp ? He  is grown a tall Dog by this J hope : resolve me quickly .  Good   Good again .  Excellent .  Hang him , my Dogs worth 'em all , in ready money .  I will not give his eares for the swolnst headfull of wit among 'em .  Are not his Eares finely curl'd Trebasco ? Like his Dam Flapses .  Told thee ! Didst thou not see him ? My heart misgives me .  Ha!   How !  O my heart will break .  My veine is yet too dul ; But I will offer at it .  Three Losses I have had ; gone , past all help .  My Mare , my Mistresse , And ( which grieves me most of all ) my whelp .  I would it were else . — o —  I protest , Gentlemen , I have not drown'd sorrow  With so much merry go-down , these three halfe years .  How much was that a peece think you ?  Now if you could be drawn to the ducking-pond ,  To joyn your Groat sometimes with me ; or two-pence ▪  There were a Recreation indeed :  That Peerlesse Princely sport , that undoes no man :  Though cheating there ; and rooking be as free  As there is square play at the Ordinaries .  Let it be so ; slid the old angry man !   Enter Brookeall .  He 'll cross us if he see us walke this  [ Exit Amp. Vermine . ]   Let me alone to question him . Did you see this Gentleman's  Daughter , sir , my Wife , that should have been ?  Since she was stolne away , sir . It were good  You would let us have her again ; and quickly too ,  Ere she be worse for wearing , as we say .  VVill you answer me ?  I am satisfied . He knowes nothing .  I think I do , You know nothing of her I mean , Sir .  I think I do again , Sir . Pray be not so terrible ;  Examine him your selfe , if it please you .  How blest was J to miss her !  O happy condition of a Batchelor !  Pretty odd Doctrine , this !  Nay pray Sir heare them ; though you profit not ;  I may perhaps . Methinks it edifies .  So they make hot Purchases !  Your Son in Law ? Trust me , a most fine man :  And , if his life be answerable to his Doctrine ,  T is like hee le lead you to a faire end of all .  Doubtlesse he is a fine young Man indeed .  A proper teacher and an edifying .  O brave old man .  And all for nothing ?  And is there delicate Wine too ? I must thither .  O rare !  And all for nothing ?  Away Girle .  No we deny it .  O villanous Vixen .  Yes : we will off in Rhime . There is no doubt ,  Jf Wats be not the Compter , he is out .  My sweetheart , hoe !  I will not be appeas'd .  No : But and I were at the Duckingpond , I know what I know . But when I drown my selfe , I 'll give you leave to hang me .  Fashion-sick ! a fine civill word . To be drunk , is fashion-sick .  To which I have given my Consent most freely .  For it was Nolens volens as they say . 