 You would be rid of me : but pardon me Madam , I must hold your glasse to you .  I 'le open then the booke to you of your errors .  You are a mocker of instruction , and good counsell .  I speak to onely you ; to conjure ( if I can ) that spirit of scorne out of you ; which you have taken in , and long affected for a humor , your singular own humor , till it is grown so familiar , so inherent in you , that you have wonne the title of the humorous Lady by 't ; and drawn a scorne upon your selfe .  I am not gone so ; nor is all so payd :  For there 's a greater reckoning yet of Raylings ,  Reviling , Curses by the many that  Y'have scornd and slighted , shot at you in hot vollies .  You may in time be sensible of their suffrings ,  Whom you have violently , and willfully abus'd  With scorne and pride ; if you call to mind  The cause , bred meerly out of humour ; cause you would have it so .  Can it be otherwise ? Has it not ever bin  Your practise , since your time of widow-hood  To catch all mens affections ? T is indeed  An honour to a Lady to have many suitors ;  But to lay bait for 'em only to delude 'em —  Is impiously dishonorable .  Yes , and have gloried in it for your humour  To lead men into brakes with foolish fire .  You might though have prevented the mishaps  Of many , by a faire and free resistance  In the beginnings of their suits of Courtships ,  And not to set your selfe at gaze to draw them on ,  And then allure them with assured hopes  Of love and favour till you have wound their follies  Into the reach of your disdaine ; and then  To torture 'em , or having ta'ne 'em captives  To slave and sell 'em to the worlds derision .  Shee feeles compunction !  I will pursue it to the quick .  Consider then good Madam , since I know ,  And your own conscience knowes , that you have made  A secret vow from your late husbands death  Never to marry , how better and more glorious  It would be for your honor to declare  Your constant purpose to a single life ,  Then to fall into the transgression  Of robbing men so of their wits and reason ,  And all by willfull humor ; as this late  Unhappy accident of madnesse in  The hopefull Knight Sir Ferdinando cryes  Lowdly to your disgrace , and the worlds sorrow .  What i st in your construction ?  Who I Madam !  T is with intent ,  And a religious purpose to decline ,  And divert womans fond affections from me .  And travell'd too : yet never could discover  Such an example .  Good thoughts possesse you Madam . I must hence .  Vertue , be thou my armor . Briefly then  Let me intreat you Madam :  Sanctity protect me .  Sit.    Madam to the point .  Where is shee wandering now ? Bee playner Madam .  I am no good interpreter of looks .  You must first speake it Madam .  Madam I 'le pray for you .  Starts up .   I dare not heare you .  Who waits upon my Lady here ?  Exit .   I have venter'd to this house againe , assur'd  That now the humerous Lady is from home  Forgetting not her Love-trick put upon me  Which she already boasts to my disgrace  For which I may requite her Ladyship ,  How dos your patient ? a sleepe ! That 's well .  The Lords in honorable regard unto  His health directed me to visite him .  Do you not know me sir ?  Your Friends at Court commend them to you Sir .  What a wilde fancie 's this !  Pray give mee leave to touch it though , a little .  The Lady Strangelove ! you are in her house sir ,  Where doe you thinke you are ? or who you are ?  Pray call your selfe to mind sir , are not you  The noble Cavalier and hopefull Courtier  The most accomplish'd Knight sir Ferdinando ?  I have authority for what I do sir ,  Can you forget your selfe sir , or neglect  The bounteous fortunes , that the Court and Kingdome  Have in store for you , both for past Atchievments ,  And for the large endowments of court-vertue  Are found still growing in you , studied and practis'd  So to the life , as if you were built up  Vertues own Mansion , on her foure firme pillars ? —  The Wisdome , Justice , Magnanimity ,  And temperance of court you are exactly  Fram'd and compos'd of , and indued with all  The excelencies that may adorne a man  By Nature , Fortune , Art and Industry !  And all this glorious light to be eclips'd ;  And such Divine perfections seeme to sleepe ?  Sir , most attentively .  Guard me Divinity .  In all my disputations all my travailes ,  And all conspiracies that have bin had  Aagainst me , never met I an incounter  By man , or spirit that I feard so much ,  Yet here 's another fury .  Shee 's mad too .  I take it to forsake your house ; and never  More to resort where madnesse raignes . Did I  Make love to you ?  Now vertue guide me . I will shun this place  More then I would the Spanish Inquisition .  Did you not give me leave to send for him ;  Who , now is come to tender his affection  Unto your Daughter ?  I understood not  Nor can yet understand more of her dowry  Then a thousand pound which her Unkle left her ,  And answerably to that I will make good her joincture .  A judgement 's fallen upon him : Hee 's mad too ;  Struck lunatique with his o're-weening hopes  Sprung from the others misery .  Wherein have I fail'd sir ?  Sir to no possible dowry you can give her ,  But you propound the estate you have i' th' Moon ;  When shall you take possession , thinke you , of your  Lordship of Lunacy in the Cynthian Orbe ?  Nay then sir heare me .  Madnesse at heighth .  Friend , has he hurt thee ?  Why how now Frederick ? despaire not man .  He has vex'd me ; and out of my vexation  Shall spring thy comfort . I will labour for thee ,  I 'le study nothing more then to beguile  This watchfull fury ; this Hisperian Dragon .  Say to thy selfe and boldly shee 's thine owne ,  And for thy meanes , ( Basta ) let me alone .  We will do something sodainly .  This fellow will betray us .  Cupid and Mercury favour our designe .  Ex. Om.    Te precor domine Doctor .  He sings on .   The Doctor stretches his Throat in the Tune .   They are no Christians sure .  Sir may I be inform'd by you ?  To Swayn . He whistels & Dances Sellingers round , or the like .   Blesse me ; the people are bewitch'd .  Do you belong to the house sir ?  To Dainty , he fidls to him & the 4 dancing & singing practise about him .   I hope for curtesie here Lady wil you be pleas'd —  To Phil. she speaks in a vile tone like a Player .   This is most heathenish of all .  Dainty playes softly & Doctor with him aside .   What Woman Monster 's this ? Sweete young Gentleman , let me aske you a question .  All Lunatick ? or Gentlemen , do you want leasure  Or civility to answer me ?  Never was I in such a Wildernesse .  But my revenge upon Sir Mendicant  Shall answer all my patience , in the Jeere  I meane to put upon him .  I will possesse him with a braine-trick , now , wherein  A meere invention of mine own  Heaven pardon me for lying ) shall so nettle him .  Hee 's come . Ha' you heard the newes sir Andrew ?  That Ferdinand 's restor'd to 's wits .  Do you take the losse of his estate so mildly  Which might ha' bin your own ?  I thought I had ly'd when I did prophesie :  But sir my Nephew Fredrick —  ( I hope not so ) yet there 's another accident  Of which you have not heard , may touch you nearer ,  And that indeed 's my businesse , you sir , furiously  Wounded your Man to day .  Flatter not so your selfe ; Hee 's on the point of dying .  Nor be too much dejected ,  His life you may get off for ( as 't was done  In heat of blood ) marry sir your estate  ( You 'l pardon me ) is beg'd ; my selfe has don 't ,  And therein , beg'd the Begger .  Take not too deepe a sense of it : For if you 'l yeild  That Frederick yet shall have it with your Daughter ,  I will remit the Estate .  No , he lives .  She here ! i 'm then agen confounded .  But is it so ? —  And is it so with you sir Ferdinand ?  A selfe mistrust is a sure step to Knowledge .  Quarrells are ended Madam .  Some Nuntius sent from Hell .  How ! hang'd himselfe ?  'T is well : And all are friends . 