 We wait upon your honour my good Lord  To crave the knowledge of what good successe  Your honor finds in our late suits my Lord .  Yes , and that  In a short space of time , the world holds no  Proportion else , nor shall it more be sayd  That money can buy Land ; or great Estates  In Lands and Mannor-houses be call'd Lordships .  My Lord 't is most apparant .  That in the space of one whole year our projects  Shall bring in fifty thousand pounds to us ,  And hundred thousand to your selfe ; and to  The Coffers Royall for full seaven years space  64 Thousand 783 l. 7 s. 9 d ob . q. per annum ,  T is here already cast . Which to make good  Wee 'l venture Lives and Goods .  My Lord your man abuses us here strangely  With his old misbeliefe . But still we doubt not  Your honourable good opinion of us .  No more ?  Nay the whole platforme of a stately City ,  Or a designe to conquer a whole Nation ,  But doe you note the grounds , the Rules and Reasons ,  First for the easinesse of the severall grants .  Without all grievance unto the subject .  Take 'em into particulars my Lord ,  First this for Perrukes . The Monopoly  Of making all the Perrukes male and female ,  Through Court and Kingdome .  Note the necessity , that they be well made  Of no diseas'd or infectious stuffe , of dead or living ,  No verminous or sluttish locks or combings ,  But harmlesse and sound haire , of innocent ,  And wholesome people .  You have in that  Said very well ; For here 's a Reformation  Of that abuse intended in these words  Innocent and wholsome .  Or if your friend or Mistris dye so , you  Procure the haire and bring it from the Gallows  To th' office , and it may be done accordingly .  Now out of this provision , what an infinite  Profit will rise i' th' generall use of 'em ,  And multiplicity that will be worne  By people of all sorts , degrees and ages :  The old to hide their naturall baldnesse , and  The young and middle-ag'd their artificiall  Or accidentall .  They shall be brought into that reputation  That none shall be esteem'd so sound or wise  As publique wearers of them : which to effectuate  T is requisite that you obtaine a Mandat  Unto all Courtiers , that would be thought wise  To weare false hayre : because clownes have been noted  To talke like fooles or mad men in their own . 