 Let your dispatches instantly be sent  Through all the Kingdom to incite the people  ( As many as are mine , or would be thought so )  To expresse with me their joy , for the enjoying  Of the so long desired happinesse ,  In this our beautious and magnificent Queen .  And now my Lords , I must require your care  To set down a fit order for our journey  Unto this Queen , to perfect my worlds blisse .  I would not fail in the least Article  Of state or decency in this Affair .  Provide so that we may in all appear  Worthy th' Atchievement of our fair ambition .  And let our followers be chosen such  Whose inward worth no lesse then outward shew  May make us glorious in this expedition .  Do speedily and effectually good my Lords ,  The time hasts on .  Methinks the silent Picture seems to say ,  'T is fit I should anticipate a day ,  Ex. Lords .   Rather then lose one minute from that light  Whose very shadow is so Angel bright .  O do not ravish me with expectation .  This is a way to make each hour untill  I shall enjoy my blisse , a tedious night ;  Each night a death : Yet can I not desire  To shift the Argument off our discourse .  Did she appear so fair , so lovely ?  O thou art mine . In such a Queen  And such a Servant nev'r was King so bless'd .  But are there in her Court ( although inferiour  To her more Excellent ) such special Beauties ,  And in my Theodricks apprehension ?  You have made choice of one then ?  Doubtlesse then  She was a fair one . Theodrick , never fear .  She is thine own , my self will be thy Spokesman  If she be worthy of thee .  Pray let me see 't . Indeed it is a sweet one .  Did he that drew this of the Queen , draw that ?  But not with the same colours .  Trust me they 're much unlike ,  He wrongs the Queen  And merits her displeasure even to death ,  T' advance a Servants beauty 'bove her own .  Keep off a little ,  You stand just in my light . And so he does ,  Twixt me and the prime beauty of the world .  But I 'l be even with him , and cause my Picturer  To set this Crown upon this head , and then —  Fie , what a fancie 's this ? He will perceive me .  But now I note this Forehead , and this Brow ,  This Eye , this Lip . —  I cry her mercy . What a shame it is  That I should fall in his discovery ?  Are Courts so fraught with fraud and flattery ?  And can a King that governs such professors  No whit dissemble to obscure his passions ?  I must , and thus begin to practice it .  Theodrick , didst thou note my contemplation  Over these Pictures ?  Thou art ever modest . Thus it was Theodrick .  ( Protest it rap't me bove the pitch of Mortals )  First to consider what an absolute beauty  This Queen has in herself ; but then to gather  The circumstances , many such as this  ( As thou affirmst ) inferiour lights to her ,  That shine about her , rendring her more glorious .  Lights her above affection , to an height  That claims her adoration . Then marvel not  That now when this but in Effigy  Was but plac'd by her . By which her Majesty  So much the more appear'd , I could not hold  This Figure of that all to be commanding beauty  When my high thoughts were fled up to her presence .  Now take thy piece of craftsmanship again ,  Which trust me is a pritty one ; whilst I  Devote my service to this Deity .  Ha!  What a mistake was here ? But thou art honest ,  And covetest but thy own ; Take it Theodrick .  Now tell me of what house er Parentage  Your Mistrisse is .  'T is such Theodrick that had I not seen  This so much above it ( pardon my hypocrisie )  I should have envied any man but thee  In such a choice . But speak her parentage .  Is she of tainted blood ?  Thy love to her may hereafter plead for him .  But soft , I am not well .  Tarry , let me see  That Picture once again . It wants exceedingly  Of this in many things .  Here it wants palpably  The drooping of the brow ; and here again  The dulnesse of the Eye , which here shews deadly  But for a little squint it has . Good Queen  You look a squint . Then look you Sir , yours wants .  You shall not hear me neither , cause I will not  Spoil your conceit of it . Your Lady wants  The furious sharpnesse of the nose , which here  My Queen has very shrewly . And again ,  You han't the hanging of the nether lip ,  Which the best Phisiognomists do tell us  Shews women apt to lust , and strong incontinence .  Phew , This is all too sweet for mortal sense ,  Here , take 't again , and keep mine for me with it .  Lay 'em together , th' one may mend the tother .  I am not well , what kind of Changeling am I ?  A wild confusion rumbles in my brain ,  My thoughts are all at strife .  Sick , sick , Theodrick .  Here yet my Lords .  Whither , to Heaven my Lords ?  Pray peace .  Stand all apart .  To be compleatly arm'd from head to foot ,  Cannot advance the spirit of a King  Above the power of love , nor to be clad  In poorest habit of humility  Can mortify the least of the desires  That love enflames man with . No outward dresse  Can change or make affection more or lesse .  I have tried all the wayes I can to conquer  Or to humiliate my raging passion ,  Which still grows more predominant ore my reason .  I find it in my self , and know my error ,  Though no means to correct it . I do know  'T is fouly done to slight the Queen that loves me .  And it was an act no lesse unprincely  To cast into suspence my friendly servant  For what transgression was 't in him to love  One fairer then my choice ? before he knew  My wavering inconstancy . I know  Withal my punishment is just , how e're  My sufferings make me wish it less severe .  For my unjust removing of Theodrick ,  I lose all helpful counsel , all relief ,  That my oreburdend breaking heart cries out for .  Into his brest I could unload my grief ,  Were it compos'd of ought but his abuse  I must not , dare not trust him with this story ,  Lest for redresse I meet revenge . Who 's there ?  O you are welcome Ethelswick , I am now  To trust you in a serious affair .  We will walk forth together Ethelswick .  Let none presume to follow . Not a man  Give the least motion this way on your lives .  Pull the fool off me .  Again , I charge you all that none presume  To follow us .  Now my good Ethelswick , I have told thee all ,  By which I find much ease , and hope to sleep :  But not to take a thought unto my fancy  By my soft dreams , but of my beauteous Mildred .  Nor will I in sleep or waking think of any  Other adventure , till I do attain  The sight of her , and prithe Ethelswick  Help me , and suddainly , in my device  How to contrive a journey secretly  Not with above one or two trusty servants  To make this blisseful visit .  For that I 'l give command before I go ,  That no affairs of State or otherwise ,  No not my diet nor Attendants  Shall passe to me but by your hands ; pretending  For twenty dayes a studious privacy ,  To which your self shall only have admittance ,  And take for all that come my Answers , which  Frame you as you think fit ; and who shall dare  To think me from my Closet or my Bed ,  When you avouch me there ?  As for example , we are now in private ,  Answer you all comers ,  I am busie , or asleep ; see how they 'l take it .  You see how easily he 's answerd now ;  So will the rest hereafter when they find  It is my pleasure to be thus retir'd .  Ha , ha , they all desire to have their care consider'd ,  Although in real act they merit nothing .  But Ethelswick , when I have declar'd my pleasure ,  As I 'l appear , and publikely to morrow ,  To give command that none upon their lives  Shall give you lesse respect in this behalf  Then I my self might claim , it will be easie .  I 'l school 'em all .  How 's that ?  Is the King there ? what traytors voice is that ?  Let 'em appear ;  enter  ha ! who made you King-makers ?  How ?  Let 's see your may-game .  Is he so like me to your apprehension ?  Peace , no more , ne're question that ; Cupid has heard my prayers .  Who saw you take him up ?  'T was well done ;  Be secret still ; nay , I must charge you strongly ;  And if my power be not a spell sufficient  To worke your secresie , I 'l take your heads  To mine own custody .  Nay , I must trust ye ; harke you Ethelswick .  Come , into our bed with him ; gently , so :  Nay Sir , you shall have Noble Kingly usage ;  Never had stranger entertainment like him .  I 'l give him all I have during his stay .  Exchange my self with him , and be beholding  To him besides for th' use I 'l make of him .  I 'l tell you all within : Love , that has sent  This blessing in my way , when I was in  So great a streight ( I cannot think enough on 't )  To bring new life unto my fainting hopes ,  If now I serve thee not with strength and skill ,  Remove me as a Rebel to thy will .  My Lord , how e're  Some of your servants are pleas'd to make themselves  Merry with a pretended knowledge of me ,  I do presume your honour cannot know me .  What means your honour ?  This is most strange .  Pray hear me .  Forbear your outrage .  Will you but hear yet how you are mistaken ?  You have told me wonders , which have pierc'd my soul  With horror and amazement ; yet I must confesse ,  In all that I am like to suffer , heaven is just ,  Whilst wrath my wilfulnesse has pull'd upon me ;  Yet pardon , since thou gav'st me that affection  That wandred with me in this oblique course ,  This unquoth way , with which I have not stray'd  Further then love might lead an humane frailty .  Yes , and fall upon our present businesse ; there you find me  Out of a spacious Kingdom of mine own ,  Shut in a narrow Prison ; whilst the brother  Of her , whose love I came to seek , has married  The Queen I might have had ; before I have seen  His Sister ; there was a quick expedition .  All think him then their King still ?  It seems he was not so mad , but he could take  The Queen into my bed .  Whilst I lie here for his ,  Accus'd of Parricide ; but I will not  Reveal my self till trial .  Ent. Mildred   Now all my sufferings are turn'd into delightful recreations .  Fairest of Virgins welcome ; marvail not  That at first sight I knew you , when my heart  Wears the Impression of your Portraiture ;  And all my intellectual faculties  Bow to no other object but your beauty .  Lo ye , she knows I am not Anthynus .  Her vertue like the Sun will clear the mist  Of error we were lost in .  I understand not this .  If I can clear my self ?  Weep not , but hear me ; or hear me though you weep ;  I am not Anthynus .  I never had an hand  In blood of any man .  Fetch me a Priest .  Yet hear me , and be comforted .  I do not know that name .  Hark , the wide world abroad is fill'd with joy ,  And must we only be shut from it ? now .  Still must I be Anthynus ?  Who are my Judges ?  What King do you mean then ?  Yes , I know him as well as he knows himself .  I fear him not ,  But am as good as he ; now carry me for something .  Is Offa mad ?  Yes , will you be so kind as to see my Trial ?  Thy trespasse is thine honour my Theodrick .  And I must thank your care my Lords , as it deserves ,  Your over-reaching care to give my Dignity  As much as in you lay unto another .  And for your Letters counterfeit in my name ,  By which the Queen is mock'd into a marriage .  Yes , my noble Brother ,  She stands in fortune equal with your self ,  In being mine .  I am clear of that , as I am not Anthynus .  Anthynus is accus'd , not Osriick Sir ,  Your father is required at your hands .  You are my Father in your Daughters right .  But see Anthynus at a greater height .  Mine .  Still the fool's covetous .  And I 'l be thine Theodrick ; for thou in this  Hast above favour shewn me unto blisse .  I pardon all on mine .  Next to my sum of happinesse my Bride ,  I should have sought that honour , royal Sister . 