 YOu have your Money ; full a thousand pound ,  Sir Humfrey Dryground .  All well and good ; all well and good . But , now ,  Sir Humfrey Dryground , let me counsell you .  You have already spent a faire Estate ;  A goodly , great estate : I do not taunt ,  Nor taxe you for 't .  But give me leave , now , fairely to admonish  You , to a care , how you do part with this .  You spirited men call Money Dirt and Mud .  I say it is the Eele .  It is an Eele , I say ,  In such sleek hands , as yours ; from whence it glides —  I know you doe conceive me . Therefore , Sir ,  ( As I before was saying ) Hold it fast .  So so , I see it going already .  You say , you le make a venture of this Money .  Out upon Projects . Fy fy , out out out .  Sowne ! There 's a word ! Prodigall wast is sowing .  We shall call Shipwrack , shortly , sowing too .  Heark you Sir Humfrey Dryground , may not I  Be privy to your Project ? Will you tell me ,  If I guesse on it ?  Is 't not to dreine the Goodwins ? To be Lord  Of all the Treasure , buryed in the Sands there ?  And have a Million yearely , from the Merchants  To cleer the passage .  No more of that .  O ho ! I now remember , you have reason .  That Brookall had a Sister , whom you vitiated  In your wild heat of blood , and then deny'd  Her promis'd Marriage ; turnd her off with Childe  A dozen yeares since , and since that , never heard of  Ha! Is 't not so ? Pray , did you know her Sir ?  You have your Money .  If you break your day  I shall thinke of your counsell .  And farewéll Dryground .  This parcell of thy Land , I le keep from wetting :  The Mortgage .   T is not in thee to turne an Acre of it  Into pure Liquor , for a twelvemoneths day .  And break that day thy payment , and the Sun  Sets not more sure , then all this Land is mine .  My Daughter ! ha ! Can 't be in thought of man  To dreame of such a Match ? A wretch , a Beggar ?  Within there ! Where s my Girle ? What Ally ? Ally ?  Enter Alice .   My blessing , and good morne : Now heare me Girle .  The care of Children's such a startle-braine ,  That had I more then one , I should run Wild-cat ,  ( Then one I mean , to care for ) that 's thy selfe ,  My sober discreet Daughter . Note my care ,  Pil'd up for thee in massy sums of wealth ;  Too weighty for thy weak consideration  To guesse from whence it came , or how together  So layd in mountainous heaps .  O , Ally Ally ,  T is well if thine with all thy Huswifry  Can keep 'em so . I thanke thee for thy judgement  And charitable thoughts . But —  I say , thou art the onely Childe I care for .  Thy Brother ( though I loath to call him so )  Is , now , an utter stranger to my blood ;  Not to be nam'd but with my curse , a Wolfe  That teares my very bowells out .  A riotous Reprobate , that hath consum'd  His last , already , of my meanes and blessing .  Out o th' Compter !  May he be so , dost think ? Could I but dream  His Creditors , that have him fast , could be  So idly mercifull , or that his youthfull Ghing  Could stretch , to get him out , I le lay , my selfe ,  An Action on him weightier , then the strength  Of all their poor abilities could lift :  His Jacks , his Toms , his Nams , Nolls , Gills , and Nuns ,  The roaring fry of his Blade-brandishing mates  Should not release his Carcasse : If they did ,  I 'de force him to a tryall for his life ,  For the two hundred Peices that he pilfred .  Out of my Counting-house . He shall up .  Thou shalt defie the name of Brother in him ,  My onely , onely Childe ; and but in one command  Obey me further , all my estate is thine ,  T is that I cald thee for .  Thou shalt , and stile thy selfe a Lady by 't .  This day I le match thee to a matchlesse Knight .  Even he , this day he comes to Towne .  I like those blushes well : I read his welcome  Upon her cheeks .  But he has Money Girle  Enough to buy the best Knights Land , that is  A selling Knight , in the West part of England .  A lusty Batchelor of two and fifty ,  With , O , the husbandry that 's in him .  No : He was one o th' Cobbe-Knights in the throng ,  When they were dubd in Clusters .  Enter Servant .   Fetch the Man .  The welcomst man alive is come to Towne .  Ally , my Girle , my Daughter , Lady Bride !  What title shall I give thee ? Now bestirr you ,  I know his thrift , he has rid hard to day  To save his Dinner  Enter Wat disguised like a Countrey Servingman .   Welcome honest freind .  And how does the right worshipfull Sir Amphilus ?  T is of weight and lock'd : I guesse the worth ;  And warrant him the safety under these Keyes .  But where 's thy Master ?  No , I will run to him  My selfe : you shall stay here . his Chamber  Fitted against he comes , Ally , bestirr you ,  And thinke no paines your trouble on this day ,  To morrows Sun shall light your Wedding way .  Exit .   Thou hast undone me Villaine .  Was ever man so cursed in his Children !  Go backe to the Recorders : Fetch the Warrant ,  I le search the City and the Suburbs for her .  Exit Servant .   It may be I have ; it may be not ; How then ?  What 's that to you ?  Pray let me ask you first , if you be not  The knaves confederates that stole her from me ?  What are you ? J would know .  Cannot this place , where Law is chiefly studied ,  Relieve me with so much , as may revenge  Me on these scorners ? How my Slave stayes too !  Yet I may find a time . —  Exit :   the frumping Jacks are gone . —  Ask you for my daughter ? Let me aske you first what was your plot to put me in this fright , to make me trudge to your Inn , whilst knave your man here . — Is not this he ?  Having first left a bag of Trumpery with me ,  stones , and old iron , steals away the baggage .  Gone , gone .  This is the day of my affliction ,  This day I le crosse out of my Almanack  For ever having any thing to do on 't .  Hell vomits all her malice this day on me .  Why talk you to that Rayler ?  Sirrah , I le tame thy tongue .  I shall find meanes  Then to confine it , and your self in Bedlame .  How am I tortur'd ! I will fly this place .  Out on thee Baggage .  Out , out .  What canst thou be ?  Can Knights get Beggars ?  Huswife I le ha' you whipt .  Away , away .  The Devill haunts me .  Hellish baggage !  Pull her away ,  I fly thee , as I would the Devill that sent thee :  Mrs. Bumpsey , I take it you are she .  She is as mad as he .  Most unrecoverably mad ! young Gentlewoman :  Nay , I intreat your favour for an answer ?  As you can pity a wrong'd mans distresse .  Give me what light you can of my lost Daughter .  You have been inward alwaies , and partook  The nearest of her Counsels . Tell me fairely  I do beseech you in this gentle way .  Though I professe I have a strong presumption  Against your Husband , and his young Associates  I met to day ; and bore their mocks and taunts :  On which I have good ground for a strickt course  To force 'em to examination .  Yet I intreat you see .  Why do you abuse me thus ?  Your mocks are monstrous .  Were not he fast enough , I would resolve  No other friend had robb'd me .  That 's all that comforts me .  It was enough to shew his Prodigality .  In over-wastfull Cost . You were not wont  To be a Boordsend-King ; a pay-all in a Tavern .  Yes , and perhaps my Daughter too . His Father 's gone  Now , and I know not how to question him .  VVhat do you know , Sir , of my Daughter , I beseech you ?  How can you say you know this ?  Oh —  Will you vouchsafe to leave me ?  Ha' you done yet ?  Torment and death ! Is he come ? Let me go ;  I shall trounce you .  Oh the variety of my vexation —  Bestow your Substance so Sir , if you like it .  Sir .  How , how , how ?  You practise my abuse . T is not in man ,  To do me such a mischeife .  Hence you Harlot .  What , to be Bankrupts ?  Each minute of this day augments my torment ,  Yet J have coold it with some patience ;  Attending Sir your answer .  J have no Son . J aske you for my Daughter .  Wee l go . Wil 't please you ?  Ha! How 's that ?  My Daughter , ha !  By what witch-craft ?  I am struck dum with wonder .  Hence .  Exit Valentine .   Away .  Conscience ! do you know where she is ?  Sure , all 's but Apparition , or a dream .  I am awak'd out of the Lethargy  Of Avarice : Blest may our Friendship be . 