 My Master is in health Sir , prays'd be Go —  A little weary , or so , as I am of my carriage ,  Which I must not lay down , but in the hands  Of your owne Worship .  At his Inne in Holborne  Telling a little with the Host , till I  Bring word from you .  You are sad , me thinks , young Mistresse , I can tell you ,  My Master , when he comes , will make you merry .  No : But as he has  The soule of mirth and Musick at command ;  Money , the all-rejoycing spirit , that  Hee 'l make you merry with : Not that alone ,  But Dignity , which Women prise 'bove money ,  You are a Lady by 't : Mark that . And if  He has a weaknesse , which you reckon folly ;  It laies you open way to Soveraignty ;  The thing which is of most esteem . You 'll be  His Lady Regent ; rule all his , and him .  You cannot , in the state you are , imagine  What t is to be a Wife to such a man .  Who do you mean ? Sir Amphilus my Knight .  Cheap Whores , and Duck-hunting :  There 's his delight indeed .  But Wedlock , to his age , will bring him home  To choicer pleasures , and abandon such .  You slight him strangely yet : but when you see  Him , and his weighty reasons to confute you . —  Are you in earnest ?  These are the armes that must receive thee then .  Nay , be not frighted Sister ; look , t is J.   Off his Beard , &c.    So it seems ,  My Virtue was not to be so obscur'd .  Noble Sir Humphrey Dryground , Sister , was  My franck Infranchiser . O , J have wonders  To tell thee Sister . Thou must go with me .  But first , lend me some money . Borrow some ;  ( And let it be a good Summe ) of my Father ,  Now in his absence . Come , supply , supply  My Pockets and thine owne . For we must hence .  Th' art made for ever , Sister . Quick , dispatch .  T will be too long to tell it here .  The Rascall foole , to whom my Father gives thee ,  Is come to Towne : And should he now surprise thee ,  Here in my Fathers power , thy strength might faile thee .  Be therefore at a sure Guard , O , Sir Humphrey ,  How are my Sister and my selfe bound to thee ,  That plottest this escape . Dispatch good Ally ,  And heare thee rest by th' way .  Say thou will have that Coxcomb , I le but kill thee ,  And leave the here : And all my care is over .  Why do you not shun him then ? O , sweet Sir Humphrey ,  Is thy care slighted thus , in my delivery ?  In my disguise ? In sending out my Father  On Tom-fooles Errant ? While a Coach is sent  To the back-doore here ; All to save my Sister ,  My thanklesse Sister here , from worse then Rape .  But hard-by .  But till the Wilde-fire of my Fathers Passion  Shall be run out . Slid , J had eene forgot .  Beare money with us , Sister ; pretty store .  Who knowes occasions ? Let him keep in pawne  My rich Portmantue for 't 't .  More then hee ll thank me for . Wee 'll talke i' th' Coach  In , in , and furnish ; & so through the Garden ,  And , whirre , we are gone . If we should be prevented ;  By this good steele , if J but heare one knock ,  I le make sure work o thee . J can but trusse for  t .  There 's a faire end on 's both . And what will he  Do with his money then ? Look how thou standst .  Jf you respect your Father , or the Dog-Master ,  To be your Husband , better then me , then take  You your owne course : Mine shall be known next Sessions .  No , if J do , let me be hang'd for nothing :  And that would anger any man I think .  Slid , thou and J had one Mother , ( which  We both take after ) so had not he and we .  And he takes after no body , that J know .  He loves a stranger better then 's owne Childe :  And that mans money , better then that man ,  The Devill 'bove all J think . Thou dost not know  What Coales we stand on .  Wilt loose thy selfe with keeping that ? Is that  All now ? Away , away .  I like a Whore , with all my heart , that talkes  So like an honest woman .  Here 's a coyle ,  For a poore bit afore-hand ! Is it so ?  ' Heart , if a man bespeak a Tavern Feast  For next day Dinner ; and give earnest for 't  To half the value , ( as my Faith and Troth  I think , is somewhat towards your Marriage payment  To be to morrow ) Will not the Hostesse give him  A Modicum o're night to stay his stomack ?  Your Father comes : I le whisper yet more reason .  Yes ; can the Parish Parson give you better ?  Well no more .  I le talke with your Father about it .  As I love mischiefe , and desire to live by 't ;  It is the daintiest course . — O , brave sir Humphrey ,  How I am taken with your Shape ! Old Osbright ,  The Father of the Swindgers ; so much talk'd on  Could nere ha' borne it up so . Nor his Daughter ,  That was French born indeed , could ere have clipp'd ,  And Frenchified our English better , then  She counterfeits to Coxcombes that do Court her :  With her fine Fee-fees , and her Laisse-moys ;  Her Prea-awayes ; Intrat a you mak a me blusha .  O , I am tickled with it .  slid I could dote upon you . Had I been  Your Son now , how I could have honour'd you !  Though I had kept a Precept by t , I care not .  The Devill sure  Ought me a mischiefe , when he enabled that  Old Wretch , my Father to beget me . Oh ,  T is in my bones ; I feele it in my Youth :  I know from whence the Pocks is now descended .  The Gout begets it . There 's no Usurers Son ,  But 's born with an hereditary spice on 't .  'slight , I could ask you blessing .  Nere since I grew to any understanding :  Nor ( as I know ) before , but whipt and held to 't .  No man shall be her Husband , but my selfe ;  Who ere she lies withall , before or after .  That she has roundly promis'd . But she balkes ,  And Boggles with me in a lesse request .  You may command her duty , if you please .  'Troth , sir , but one nights knowledge  Of her aforehand . One word of your mouth ,  I know would do it , sir .  But that I am afeard  My Father would be pleas'd with 't , I l'd take home  My Sister else , and presently .  I do observe you , sir .  Honestly , sir .  Right sir , on .  And this is she , I love a bastard naturally ,  Ah thy are bouncing spirits : Now I love her  More then I did Sir .  J , now , now .  That 's I , that 's I Sir : this has musick in 't .  No dumb Bawde like me .  In troth you cannot thinke how much I love it ;  How I am tickled with it ! Good Sir , on .  How , good Sir Humphrey , how ?  How ! Rifled Sir ?  Can you suspect me ?  It is the rarest invention , if the Gamesters  Be stiffe and strait , that ever was projected !  What is 't a man ?  I vow too little , lesse their number help us .  How many Gamsters have you ?  Two thousand pound ! A merry portion ,  And worth as many Maiden-heads in the sport  A man shall finde in spending it ! Me-thinks  I feele my self even flying with 't already .  That here may grow  A danger Sir , the Gamesters being so many .  Phew , for that  I were indifferent , if 't were all or more  ( As it is possible a wench might bear it )  If they come single , and in civill sort ,  Allow her breathing-whiles —  But my doubt is , that such a multitude  May fly into combustion , blow up all  The businesse and our hopes .  Yes , very gallantly .  She knows not on 't you say ,  And that 's a sweet obedience : I could kneel  Before my wretched Sire in such commands .  Presto , Anon , anon Sir .  Ex. VVat Stands aside .   Here Sir .  No Sir , no :  Not the least inckling of it : The old man  Carryes it so discreetly .  Yes , discreetly .  She dreames of no such businesse ; such intent :  No more then the Cud-chewing Heifer knowes  The Butcher , that must knock her down ifaith .  O , t will be bravely carried ! I my selfe  Knew nothing till this houre : though I saw  Money put in his hand by divers Gallants :  Men of great place and worship ; which I gather  Are to be of the Riflers .  All must be namelesse . There are Lords among 'em .  And some of civill Coat , that love to draw  New stakes at the old Game , as well as they ;  Truckle-breech'd Justices , and bustling Lawyers ,  That thrust in with their Motions ; Muffled Citizens ;  Old Money-Masters some , that seek the Purchace :  And Merchant Venturers that bid for the  Forreine Commodity , as faire , as any .  I will not faile you . In the Temple Walkes —  Exit .   You Rogues , Slaves , Villaines , will you murther me ?  I thank you Gentlemen .  No , as I hope to escape this Gentlemans fury .  Not for a minute , Sir , I le not be kick'd ,  And call'd base Pandar for your baseness .  And had almost been pump'd ,  And made a sport for Water-men i' th' Thames .  I le heare my Father sooner . ( Give me hence  My Sister ) were he a ravenous Beast , a Wolfe ,  J would obey him rather then trudge a foot  Further in your base way . Heart J am hip-shot .  J am in desperate feare  O' th' Mourning of the Chine too with the kicks ,  And hunches they o're-said me with . O base !  Without resistance . Give me hence my Sister .  Was 't not your project ?  Nay , it shall out . Your base inhumane Project ,  To sell your Daughters Maiden-head . ( J care not  Who heares me , J. ) And cunningly to make me  Your Hackney-jade to fetch your Chapmen in .  Baseness ! J cannot call it bad enough .  Mine eyes are opened now .  And J vow  Ere J will marry so , I le take a Beggar ,  And joyn in trade with her , though I get nothing  But — My name is Vermine already , J  Thank a good Father for 't .  Much better then your Sale-ware , and more lasting .  J think J saw her to day must be the woman ,  Good Madame Polcat , the trim Schoole-mistriss .  I le make bold with your Schollar . What! you have more .  I le carry her and her Virginity  Unto some fitter place of Execution .  What! in a Bawdy-house ?  Sir , she shall with me . I le leave her where J found her .  'Sfoot , Gentlewoman , must I kick you out o' doores ?  Ha , ha , ha . VVhy , this is well , and very hospitably done .  VVould any man but an old Bawde ha' done this ?  Baser , and baser still . Are you a Knight ?  A Knight , a Post-Knight . A Postillion ,  That rides a fore-horse , o're the Eares in durt ,  Three fingers thick , is not so base . You Varlets ,  Do you arrest folkes in a bawdy-house ?  Stay ; Let me consider ,  If now my Father ( as some in like cases  Have done ) would take a fine submission .  I could affoard to kneele and whine , me-thinks ,  Rather then back to my old Ward again .  T will nere be handsome though .  My lucky friend .  Sir , you reliev'd me lately . Could you now  But add another Favour , it might teach  One , that nere learnt to pray , to pray for you .  Do you not know me , Sir ? T was I you sav'd  Out of the Temple Sudds .  No , Sir , I was disguis'd .  Disguis'd in villany , which I recant .  I would you were as wet all over , as I was like to have been : Or , as you are Catchpoles , I would you had been but in those hands I escap'd from .  Sir , get my Father but to say as much ,  And you shall be Co-heire with me . I vow you shall have halfe .  [ Exeunt Wat , Sergeants ]   Sir , If you can forgive , and can obey you —  I now can better kneele , then speak  He weeps    That 's sure enough . But Sir , the other businesse . 