 I have not known , nor read , nor heard since I  Was of discretion to know any thing  Worthy a mans capacity of the like .  Even now .  As the Physitians  I fear must shortly do , not knowing what  To say to him .  He 's sick enough  To be pray'd for my Lord :  Although I cannot properly call it  A sickness : I am sure 't is a disease  Both to himself and all that come about him .  I fear he 's brain-crack'd , lunatick and Frantick , mad ;  And all the Doctors almost as mad as he ,  Because they cannot find the cause : something  They guesse afflicts his mind , but of what nature  It is , or how the strong conceit may grow  They can by no means win or wrest from him .  Such is the obstinacy of his disease .  'T is thought  He put these wild tormenting thoughts into him .  For which the King has banish'd him the Court  And with a guard upon his person sent him  To live confin'd at his house . My self and all ,  The faithful body of the State have mov'd  The King for his repeal again to favour .  Even we that for these two years space have wish'd him  For good State-reasons , favourlesse and headlesse ,  Have beg'd for his enlargement that the King  Might vent his troubled thoughts into his Brest ,  And so find way to ease : but all in vain ,  He will not hear of him .  Troth as mad mortals do ; we cannot tell  Whether he sleeps at all or not . Sometimes  He seems to sleep , but then his troubled thoughts  Expresse themselves in sighs , in suddain starts ,  In groans , and sometimes speech of od confus'd  And indigested matter ; then he leaps  From off his bed , calls for his horse and Armour ,  Swords , Spears and Battelaxes . But anon  Bids all be let alone ; and calls for books ,  Shoffels Divinity and Poetry ,  Phylosophy & Historical together , sports ,  And throws all by . Then calls for merry  Which e're they be presented , he forbids ,  With strong rebukes to all that spend their time  In any exercise but contemplation  In solitary places ; then walks forth  Into the Groves and Thickets , charging those  That follow him ( nor dare they disobey )  To keep aloof at such proportion'd distance  As he unheard by all may vent his passions  Unto the Air , the Woods , the Rocks , the Springs .  And twice in these Retirements have we lost him  In those obscure Meanders which his melancholy  Has led him to ; and when much industry  And care had found him out , 't was double trouble  To wind him and his fancies home again   Now , how does the King ?  Good , a fool and a Physitian .  And why the fool before my Lord , I pray ?  Sent the King for you ,  After your long retirement in the Country ?  There 's something in 't then  That savours not of madnesse altogether .  That having put by your Antagonist ,  The trouble of the Court , his favourite ,  He sends for you immediately upon 't .  Enter King , Jeffrey , Alfride and Edelbert .   Here comes our Pilgrim King .  Within . My businesse is to wait upon the King ;  My Lord , you know me , I am Theodwald   How fares his Majesty ?  That 's well , he was unreasonable well to day .  Good night my Lord ; Let the King know I pray  I gave attendance . You understand Court-service  Is it be not i th' eye , 't is half lost .  My Lord , both in the King and States behalf ,  In which you may excuse us .  Nay , without violence .  We come to bring your Highnesse comfort .  Be patient Sir .  Did you mark  His talk of wrongs , and of a wounded Father ?  And how he will not hear of being a King ?  'T was a rash vow , and so well broke ; you now  Shall be releas'd : unbind him at my peril .  These rigorous courses have done hurt upon him ;  We have provided otherwise to please you ;  For we have call'd Theodrick home again  Your Favourite , whose absence was a grief to you ;  Nay more , because 't is thought your languishing love  Bred your distemper , we have taken care  For hastning of your marriage ; your fair Queen  Is sent for , and at hand to ease your sorrow .  So is our duty , and if your Majesty  Will tread cur due allegiance into dust ,  We are prepar'd to suffer .  Most gracious Sir ,  That I have suffred under your displeasure ,  In being barr'd your presence , which no lesse  Then the all cheering Sun gave life to me ,  Was not so much my grief , as not to know  What my transgression was ; and let me now  Implore your mercy so far as to name it ;  Which if I cannot cleer me of , I 'l lose my life , and willingly .  O turn not from me royal Sir , t' augment  Your Highnesse displeasure ; but in case you will not  Be pleas'd to name my trespasse , give me leave  To speak what I suppose has troubled you ,  And caus'd me causelesly to be suspended .  My Lords , and all forbear  The presence ; never fear , all shall be well .  May 't please you now but to review these Pictures .  Now may it please your grace to recollect ,  How when I told you this was my fair Mistresse ,  Your passion first siez'd on you ; and pardon Royal Sir ,  If I have since conjectured my transgression  Was meerly this , that I lov'd one so fair ,  I dare not yet say fairer then your choice .  But freely thus , to expiate my trespasse ,  As I resign the Picture , I give up  All interest in her person , never more  Beyond your free consent to see that Beauty .  I can find  But little change , which I allow to sicknesse .  Away you fool .  O let me wash your feet Sir with my tears .  Where I was first , I 'l ever wish to be . 