 O Gabriel ! I am happy in finding thee ,  Thy master absent , whom I saw , in hast  Now passing towards the Court . Where 's my Charissa ?  May not see her sir ?  Y' are very plaine with me .  A villaine speakes it .  Draw .   Can she whose thoughts are truth , and written here ,  Here in this breast , giving me ample welcome ,  Give thee a countermand to bar me from it ?  Wouldst thou make her a double hearted monster ?  Or like another woman ?  Repent thee of thy trespasse yet and live .  What wouldst thou say ?  Is shee not here i' th' house ?  The fellow 's honest , valiant , and discreet ,  Full man , in whom those three additions meet .  Yes I dare ; and why ?  Because if thou dar'st fight , thou dar'st not lie .  You are ( I tak 't ) the Ghost of Dionisius  The great tirannicall Court-schole-master .  THou art so honest , that I am asham'd  The vice of Anger blinded so my Reason ,  As not to see through thy transparent breast  A true and noble heart ; such as becomes  A Kinsman and a friend to her I love ;  I can see now , and read thy integrity ,  And , by the light of that th' inhumane false-hood  Of that Court-monster , that compacted piece  Of Rapine , pride and Lust .  Courtier ? A meere vaine glorious imposture ;  Pretending favour , having nothing lesse .  Witnesse his want of Merit . Merit only  It is that smoothes the brow of Majesty ,  And takes the comfort of those precious beauties  Which shine from grace Divine : and hee 's a Traytor  ( No way to stand a courtier ) that to feed  His Lusts , and Riots , works out of his Subjects  The meanes , by forging grants of the Kings favour .  T is plaine he never lov'd her vertuously  That is fallen mad for another .  But as his fortune by the others ruine  Shall be advanc'd , I shall be more rejected .  O sir , you had better left me in that peace  I lately slept in , without any hope  Of seeing her againe , then by your summons  To startle me back from a quiet death  To Kill me thus with Tantalizing tortures .  Remember , sweet , your vow .  And this —  You are my noble Patron .  I will venter  All that I have , my fortune in Charissa  On his his fidelity , sir his thoughts are mine .  Into the aire ! Set me upon Mount Lathmos ,  Where I may see , and contemplate the beauty  Of my ador'd Diana ; or carry me  Up to Hymettus top , Cytheron , Othris or Pindus  Where shee affects to walke and take the ayre ;  Or tarry , stay , perhaps shee hunts to day  I' th' woods of Merathon , or Erymanthus .  Y' are a long bearded foole .  We will have joviall pastime . Shall we run  At base , or leape frog , or dance naked  To entertaine her , or what do you thinke  Of downe-right drinke and singing ?  Forbeare you 'l stifle him ,  Take off the needlesse weight of your rude bodies ;  Unbind him and stand off , to give him ayre .  I charge you quit the roome .  Be not within the hearing of a call ,  Or if you chance to heare me , though I cry  Murder , I charge you come not at me .  Keep the dore fast . You are much mist abroad sir ,  And chiefly by the Ladies , who now want  The Court-ships , Banquets , and the costly presents  In which you wonted to abound to 'em .  Nay , nay , sit still sir . They say y' are mad ;  Mad with conceit of being a favorite  Before your time , that is , before you had merit  More then a tumour of vaine-glory in you ,  And in especiall care for your recovery  I am sent to administer unto you : but first  To let you blood .  Dagger .   Are you so sensible already ? do not stirre  Nor cry too loud . Dos the meere apprehension  Of blood-letting affright your madnesse ? Then  Reason may come agen .  O do you fly out agen ?  This is pretty : but back from the purpose .  Will you come to the point sir ?  We but lose time in this sir : Though it be good testimony of your memory in an old Song . But do you know me ?  This wild submission no way mittigates  My wrongs , or alters resolution in me  To Cure or Kill you quickly . Do you know me now sir ?  Or have you known Charissa ? do you start sir ?  Off his beard & gown .   There 's signe of reason in you then : But bee 't  By reason or by chance , that you awake  Out of your frantick slumber , to perceive me ,  My cause and my Revenge is still the same ,  Which I will prosecute according to  My certaine wrong , and not your doubtfull reason ,  Since reasonlesse you layd those wrongs upon me  When you were counted wise , great , valiant , and what not  That cryes a Courtier up , and gives him power  To trample on his betters .  Sure I shall finde you flesh , and penetrable .  You would but live t' abuse more credulous fathers  With courtly promises , and golden hopes  For your own lustfull ends upon their Daughters .  Thinke ( if you can thinke now ) upon Charissa .  Charissa who was mine , in faith and honour  Till you ignobly ( which is damnably )  By a false promise with intent to whore her  Diverted her weake Father from the Match  To my eternall losse . Now whether you  Have wit or no wit to deny 't , or stand to 't ,  Or whether you have one , or ten mens strength ,  Or all , or none at all I 'le fight or Kill you  Yet like a Gentleman , I 'le call upon you  Throw away his dags .   Give me the Swords . They are of equall length  Take you free choyce .  I cast that to you then . Hand it , or die a Madman .  I have a cause to be more mad then he ,  And in that cause I 'le fight .  I tell 't the Devill in him then to divulge it  When I have dispossest him . I have further  Reason to kill him yet , to crosse your Master ,  VVho has beg'd his Estate . Now fight or die a Mad-man .  I 'm glad you are your selfe sir , I shall fight  Now upon honorable tearmes , and could  Suppose before your madnesse counterfeit .  During your madnesse . VVhat should hinder him ?  Upon no tearmes , and you alive .  As you Guest sir .  That 's most unquestionable .  Your gold 's too light . I will accept of nothing  From you while you dare tell me you dare fight ,  Perhaps you doubt of ods , goe forth . Nay I  VVill lock him out .  Now are you pleas'd , or dare you now to fight sir ?  This is a daring Courtier !  How durst you wind your selfe in so much danger ?  And why take madnesse in you , to be bound ,  And grapled with so rudely ?  T is a faire condition .  VVell yet .  You would have ravish'd her .  And on that presumption  You fain'd your madnesse .  But rather then to faile ,  With your bawd Doctors helpe you would ha' forc'd her :  And that 's the councell you would have me keep  On your assurance of Charissa to me :  That your proceeding in your madnesse here ,  May yet finde meanes and opportunity  To exercise your violence .  Thou art not worth my Killing now .  Justice will marke thee for the Hangmans Office :  Nor , were Charissa in thy gift , were shee ,  In that , worth mine or any good acceptance ,  And for your councell , had within there Madam .  The Lady of the house ! where are you ?  VVill you be pleas'd to heare a secret Madam ?  Strangely discover'd ?  I am disgrac'd , undone .  Noblest Lady .  Exeunt Omnes .   It is , in which I hope sir you are not offended ,  Who gave me leave by any opportunity  To take her , I broke no locks nor walls for her .  There 's an Actor now !  How doubtfull of himselfe ; and yet how perfect he was ! 