 I never knew Thieves so timerous as you are .  Can we expect a booty without boldnesse ?  Besides , have we not shapes if we were spyed ,  Able to fright better Believers then  My politick Lord o th' house here .  All 's sure I warrant thee .  Pray on I prethee ; prayers become this coat ,  Like swearing in a Surplisse ; tush , they are all ,  All the whole house asleep , and I heard nothing  As we pass'd through it , but usuall sleepy sounds ,  Puffing and blowing , snorting farting and such like .  Yes , I cry mercy , as we pass'd by the Butlers chamber ,  I heard his bed crackle shrewdly , and I doubt ,  The Dary-maid and he were jumbling of  A Posset together . Come , now we are safely arriv'd at the  Fountain of our hopes , the well of comfort . Smith , lay  Down your Picklocks , they have done well their office in our passage hither . Mason ,  Advance your Pickaxe , whilst the Carpenter squares out  Our new work ; now for the honour of Artificers ; here , here ,  Here is the Trap-door , the mouth of the rich mine , which  We 'l make bold to open . And let men of our Occupations  Learn the way that many grow rich by , and  No body knows how they come by their wealth . That  Is , when they make such concavities as these , for  Rich men to hide their treasure in , that they  Make also a privy way for themselves to come and  Take a share on 't .  No , we 'l but piddle ; we 'l not take above  A thousand pounds to night .  opens  So , I 'l go down ;  And when I shake the rope , then crane me up again ; give me one of  The Lanthorns : So , so , so , let me down handsomely ;  I 'l warrant you money , the Divel and all before day yet .  O pull , pull away .  I shall be devour'd else .  Take his teeth out o' me , I cannot tell you else .  He has gnaw'd a piece of my Flank out with 's teeth ;  And miss'd very narrowly certain members of more moment ,  They'd have gone down glib with him ; now in the  Divels name , what are ye ?  No evil ones I 'l warraut , they are so white ;  Hark a little more .  Take heed thou dost not jingle thy Picklocks , ; slid ,  They 'l ring up the house like a larum bell .  Good , I have found what sprites they be . They  Must needs be the wenches that I suspected were in  The Butlers chamber , and made the stiff standing bedstead that  I set up but last week , crack like a wicker chair .  Ah Rogues ! I heard ye .  Peace , if you have a mind to scape out o th' house alive .  Did he so put thee to 't , my little Bustlepate ? what a stout blade 's this Butler ?  Yes faith , and fear you nothing for all our divelish  Outsides ; if we scape out o' the house , you scape , and  If we fail , our necks are sure to hang by 't ; and so  On there afore once more in the name of darknesse .  As you can hope for meat again , or life ,  Look big , and use no words ; and so glide by . 