 J swear J am serious , and you may may beleeve it .  Vall Dryground told it me , whose truth deserves  So well my credit , that , prove you it false ,  I le pay all Ord'naries and Taverne reckonings  You shall be at this twel'moneth .  Here comes my Author .  Enter Valentine .   Then he wrangled it out , of himselfe . J know his singular humour .  How ?  O brave old woman ! How will shee carry it ?  But see who here comes first .  Enter Vermine . Servant .   Hee 's fitted with an Heire for 't ; one that can  Justly inherit nothing but the Gallows .  Trebasco , Skip-kennel .  His Mare 's dead it seems .  I cannot think so yet : there is some other  Trick in it ; the Maid you see is very modest .  Fye ! Can there be such Fathers ?  Devill thou lyest —  Draw .   My ignorance wrong'd us both .  I know what to do .  If City Justice , grave Authority  Protect it not , I le surely spoyle the sport .  Does shee not know on 't , sayst thou ?  Blesse me Heaven ?  Discreetly sayst thou . To betray his Childe ,  To sale of her Virginity .  Prithee who ?  Was ever such an outrage ! Heark thee fellow —  They aside .   Well , I le make one : Meet me there two houres hence ,  And fetch my twenty Peices .  Where , if I fit you not —  A villany enough to blow the house up .  To the next Tavern then . Ladies adieu .  To part with such as you to some are crosses .  Yet I le not put you down among my Losses .  Exeunt .   Troth t is a shame be should get off so easily ;  Let him be yet but duck'd , or shew'd the way  Over the Garden Wall into the Thames .  Are not you married ?  No , t is so late you ha' not yet forgot  Some Office he has done you in his way .  Go , get the hence , insufferable Villaine .  I could een kick thee into twenty peeces ,  [ He kicks Wat. ]   Soon , at his Rifling .  Think whilst thou liv'st what t is to be Pandar . —  A Pandar , — Pandar — there 's for your remembrance .  Introth Father-in-Law that should ha' been , or that  May be yet ( come , who knowes what luck we may have ,  Though the dancing Planets have cut cross Capers over  our heads . ) I like this old fellows humour of chearing up  The heart well ! And would I were lost too , after my Mare ,  My Dog and your Daughter : If this warm Sack has not  Kindled a desire in me to play the good fellow , so it might  Be of free cost , to drown these dry remembrances .  VVhat , you are off o' the hooks , me-thinks .  You speak not now  In that high Phrase , or tone , as you did then .  Enter Valentine . Bumpsey , Vermine , Amphilus , Brookall , Elynor , Phillis .   What can this come to ?  Bravely , nobly done  