 Yet heare his Worship speak , good Bump .  J , let him run on .  Now he has almost done .  J Bump . Let us go our way , and let them take their 's agods name .  At this time , sir , he shall not .  Marke him now , Sir Humfrey .  Halfe ? What meane you halfe ?  J hope you will not deal so .  Pray be advis'd .  Husband .  You won't be mad .  Nay , but in one thing , Bump . let me advise you .  This was your folly Bump . He was content  To have walk'd moneylesse you saw , but you  Would force him . At a word you did la ' Bump .  I , at a word , you put it in his head ,  And put the Sword into the Madmans hand ,  As one would say .  Good lack fine Gentleman , that weares the Purchase  Of a pawn'd forfeiture . Must I not speak trow ?  Sir , J will speak ; and be allow'd to speak .  J , at a word ; Since you have put me to 't ,  J will uphold the Fashion ; Learn , and practise  Behaviour and carriage above my ' parrell .  J at a word , J will la , that J will .  Can she teach the elder sort ?  Indocible ! What 's that ?  Nay , then wee 'll to her .  I can yet bowe my Haunches , come and go  With them , as nimbly as the barren Doe .  My Gimboles don't complain for want of Oyle yet .  Wee 'll have this Madame ; and we will be Madames  Ourselves , or it shall cost us each a Crown  A month the teaching . In a Month we may ,  Practising but one houre in a day ,  Be Madames , may we not ?  Wee 'll find Lecture times :  Or baulk St. Antlins for 't the while . But mum .  An old Ape has an old eye .  He knowes me through all my cuts and slashes .  But when I am perfect  In the quaint Courtly carriages , that belong  Unto this habit : in which , I confesse ,  I am yet but raw ; how will you know me then ?  Or , now my black Bag 's on , I hold a penny  You do not know me . Bogh-who am I now ?  I le fox him out o th' hole if he sing here .  Will no Prey serve you but new married wives , Fox ?  Is your son a friend ? At a word , hee 's like you .  A fine spoken , and a well-bred man , at a word : He call'd us Ladies . To see what Apparell can do ! How long might I have trudg'd about in my old coats before J had been a Lady ? And then hee would do us the curtesie to kisse us : Sure , sure , as curtesie makes a Knight , so cloaths makes a Lady .  I pray , sir .  Daughter while they are gone , let us fall on our project .  I long to see this French young schoolmistress .  The Damasin do you call her ?  Good lack ! And is it you , Mrs. Alice ? I' st possible : Are you come to learn Carriage too ? I will make bold with tother Glasse of Wine . At a word , J like your French Carriage the better , that it allowes elder Women to drink VVine .  Mingle your Glasse , then , Daughter . This for me . Your father has so sought you Mrs. Alice .  But neither of 'em can dream French enough , to direct 'em hither , J warrant you . And does she learn the Carriages very well , Madamsilly ?  What do yee cal 't ? I shall never hit it . How do you finde your Schollar ?  But how much carriage hath she learnt ? Heark  you Mrs. Alice . Have you not learnt to carry a man ? Has not a good Husband stolne you hither ?  I can think waggishly I tell you : And an old Ape has an old eye . Go to .  I ask you how much carriage she has learnt ?  How say by that . I' st possible ? Can she carry both her hands in one day ?  It seems , then , you teach handling before footing in your French way .  Reverance ! VVhat 's that ?  Look you heare then .  How like you this then ? There 's a Reverence I warrant you .  Shall I ever hit on 't troe ? I must take tother Glass .  There they bee . They have been a little too familiar with Sea-coale fires , and much other course houswifry , which J shall utterly abhor , and wash off , when J have learnt to carry them Courtly .  But shall J ever do it , think you ?  I may winne my Husband to love mee Courtly then .  That 's but seldome , I doubt .  J will so multiply then .  I le be a Nimph . Diana and her Dearlings , deare , deare , deare , &c.   [ sing . ]   But may I paint , say you ?  Tother Glass for that .  That is to say ,  To hide shame , or shew all : that 's her meaning .  I am for the naked Neck and Shoulders , then .  For ( I tell you Mistress ) I have a white Skin ,  And a round streight Neck : smooth and plump Shoulders ,  Free from French Flea-bits , and never a wrinckle  Neare'em , though I say 't .  Sure the men  Took that conceit from us . What woman shewes  A Leg , that 's not a good one ? —  [ She shewes a swadled leg . ]   Good lack ! What knowledge comes from forraigne parts ?  Where are we now ?  O deare ! and is it so ? VVhat are we then ?  Is this your boun fashion ? Is this the carriage of the Body , that you would teach us ? What , to bee VVhores ? VVe could learn that at home , and there were need , without your teaching ,  O good lack ! what will become of us ? where are we now , Jane ?  Betray'd ! betray'd ! Our honours are betray'd . O my poor Bump . how will thou take this at my hands , though J carry them never so Courtly ?  Oh , oh , oh , —  [ She falls ]   I , I , I .  O my deare Bump ! Art thou there ? Thou mayst kisse , and forgive me all over too , for any harm , or dishonesty ; though the place be as they say-at a word , Bump . Thou mayst beleive me , I came but to learn Carriage of the Body , nor to carry no bodies body , but my owne body , Bump . No truely , truely Bump . o — o — that ever I did that .  Think me not drunk , good Bump , a little fashion-sick , or so . 