 Nay prethee stay a little , good old man ,  Give something to my box .  A little something , prethee ; but a tester .  Thou look'st like a good Penny-father ,  A little of thy money would so thrive here ,  'T would grow , by that I were ready for a husband ,  Up to a pretty portion . Pray thee now —  Insooth a Gentlewoman , but a By-blow ,  My Father is a Knight , but must be namelesse .  Why not ? when such as thou get Knights .  Nay , prethee , prethee now gi' me a tester .  I ne're ask lesse : My mother 's a poore Gentlewoman ,  And has no meanes , but what comes through my fingers .  And this is all my work : Come , wring it out .  Oh how I love a hard-bound Money-master ,  Whose count'nance shewes how loath hee is to part with 't !  It comes so sweetly from him , when it comes :  Nay , when ? I pray thee when ? Pish , make an end .  J , when I beg i' th' streets .  I have allowance here , as well as any  Brokers , Projectors , Common Bail , or Bankrupts ,  Pandars , and Cheaters of all sorts , that mix here  Mongst men of honor , worship , lands and money .  I come not hither to intrap or cozen .  My work lies plain before me as my way .  With , will you give me ? Praythee , hard old man .  What though thou com'st to deal  For this mans Land , or sell anothers right ,  Or els to match thy daughter , if thou hast one  To this young Gentleman — Thou wilt give mee something .  Yet I prethee make not  Thy money such an Idoll , as to think  Thou shalt dishonor 't , or impaire this bargain ,  That match , or whatsoever thou hast in traffick ,  By parting with a silly silver sixpence .  Shalt not i'fecks la , shalt not ; I le strike luck to it ,  Thy match shall thrive the better . Look , I have got  Here , four and sixpence , Prethee make it a Crowne ,  T will nere be mist in thy dear daughters Dowry ,  If ( as I said ) thou hast one .  Hee 'l gi 't me by and by . I prethee find  Thy money out the while . Come out with it man ▪   The Devill is not surer to o're-take thee . —  Exeunt omnes preter Brookeall .   Why do you use the man so ? Is he not a Christian ▪  Or is he not Christen'd enough think you , that you would dip him ?  I thank you for him too .  Thou art a Wag I warrant thee .  Pray let him go , I le schoole him  [ Exeunt Wat Phillis . ]   I le among 'em . Walke you back a little ,  And , get I any money , I le lend thee some .  Thou art as hard , as this dry crust , here , was .  But he is better minded now , I hope :  Now , old man I am sure thou art for me ,  Thou cursedst me before , but now thou wilt  Blesse me , I hope , and not without a Crosse  Of a faire Silver Sixpence .  Nay look you , if I could afford it , thinke you  I 'de make two words w' ye : t is but a sixpenny matter  Between us ; why will you be so hard : t is but  So little lesse left among all thy Children ;  And I le bate it them in their prayers for thee ,  Though I be at the trouble , my selfe , to do it .  T is a good Shilling , and a vie ; will you see 't Sir ?  Gentlemen , will you come in ? will you vie it ?  You may revye it then , if you please . They come not in to binde it .  Why , these are Lads of bounty ! Have you any minde yet Gentlemen ?  Troth , thou wouldst feare as much , shouldst thou but break  Thy Porredge Pipkin .  Nell , my Mother calls me . J nere knew Sire , nor Godsire .  Yes : And t is as bonny a Beggars name , as ever came from beyond Trent .  J make no Curtsies , nor send thanks that way .  No , I le be forwards in them . May my thanks and prayers  Multiply years and blessings on your heads .  And when J beg againe , may Beadles take  Advantage on my back , and lash the skin off ,  So Heaven be ever with you —  Nor move you them for me . J should , now , feare  One of their ill-got pence , here mingled , would  Corrupt and overthrow my righteous Fortune .  J came not to  Discourse of sorrow , but to bring you comfort :  VVill you yet have a Crowne ?  I le give you reason . Since J can remember ,  Shee never did a wrong , though suffered much ;  Nor the least unjust thing : No , though her poverty  And care of me have pinch'd her very bowels ,  Shee knew not how to seek anothers good ,  So much as by request . Shee never durst borrow ,  For feare to come so neer the danger of  A promise-breach : And , for base ends , to lye  Shee holds it sacriledge . Ifaith she jerk'd  That humour out of me ; for J was given  ( I tell you as a Freind ) a little to 't .  It came sure by the Father . God forgive him .  The Devill , sure , was powerfull with him , then .  Nor do you hear me say ▪ all Gentlefolkes  Are of one minde . Alasse they could not live  One by another then .  Vertue goes often wet-shod , and is faine  To coble it selfe up to hold out water  And cold necessity : But sure , the quality  Came to me by the Fathers side too : For  T is a more commendable , and Courtly practise  To beg , then steale . He was perhaps , a Courtier .  J rather would be rob'd of all J have ,  Then steale one farthing .  Now you come to me indeed old man : How now ,  What do you weep ?  J first , as fain would know the hidden cause  That works this aptness in me , to discover  My Mother and my selfe to you . J know not  How to look off o' you . Ifaith you weep .  I have heard some talk of naturall instinct ,  But know not what it is . Pray can you tell me ?  Or any like reason , why J should  Thus doat , and hang about you ? Or tell me this ,  Have you not been of better Fortune ? Are not you  Some decayed Knight ? Be not asham'd , but tell me .  They cannot all be rich , there are so many .  Yea , are your Conscience struck ?  Have at you for a father then : And yet  Me-thinks you are more old in goodness , then  To be , so late , so wicked , as to wrong  A woman of her sweetness . Yet I le try you .  Here is a long-kept Paper . This is all  That ere I gathered of my Mothers wrong ,  And of my Fathers cruelty , and condition .  It seemes this was his hand , and ruthfull farewell ,  He turn'd her off withall . See , if you know it .  More then a thousand times I have observ'd her  Weep o're that Paper ; ever carefull , though ,  Her teares might not deface it . If by chance ,  As when those teares prevented had her sight ,  Some soft ones did on that hard Sentence light ,  Her Lips took off the Trespass of her Eye ;  And her hot Sighes restor'd the Paper dry .  I stole it from my Mother , ( and in Troth  T is all that ere I stole ) because she should not  Weep out her eyes upon 't . I do not love ,  Although I am a beggar , to lead blind folks .  Do you not find there , that he is a Knight ,  Though he subscribes no name ? He tells her there ,  And tauntingly , he knowess she is more sorry  For the lost Ladyship he promis'd her ,  Then for her Maiden-head . Let me heare you read it .  Are you the man then , whom I must ask blessing ?  If you bee , speak . I le have you to my Mother ,  Though , I dare sweare , she had rather dye , then you ,  Or any of your Race , or hers , should see her ,  Whilst she has breath . Yet I will undertake  To prattle you both good friends .  And you shall have my Mammy ,  And she shall have her Nell ( that 's J. )  The man shall have his Mare againe ,  And all shall be well . How do you ?  What do you think , Sir ?  I fecks , I do not beg ; but came to offer  This griev'd old man some of my infinite fortune  Found in your lucky money : Lucky indeed ;  For I have found a Father by 't . I vow  I think my Father . I' st not a fine old man ?  I shall know more anon .  Yes forsooth Father , I shall learn in time ,  I le call him Father till he findes me another .  J know he could not shed those teares for nothing .  Anan forsooth Father ,  Shall he go too ? What will the Neighbours think ?  There 's none but Beggars all about us . Ods so ,  There 'll be a show indeed .  Sir , they will hale you to peeces .  How shall I answer 't to my Mother ? She  Never saw man , nor has been seen by man ,  That J know , in my life .  Troth I le venter . —  Exeunt Oes .   If this should prove my Father now ! —  That Fortune is not blinde , that shew'd me way  To Father , Friends , and Husband in one day . 