 I would the King had seen  ( His melancholy set apart ) our princely sport .  I rather think the King has lost him too  Among the bushes , as he did us last night   We shall search hollow Trees , and Crows nests shortly  For him , if these fits hold him .  This is the habit ,  The Pilgrims weed he went in ; has he not  Ended his Pilgrimage here ? is he not dead ?  'T is so , my Lord , I vow he sleeps as if  All the seven sleepers had tane up their lodging  In his phantastick brain-pan .  Hear you , my Lord the King .  I think he sleeps for them 4 , and 4. more .  I 'l undertake a drum , or a whole kennel  Of scolds cannot wake him .  I do conceive you ; for we 'l take him home ,  And have him put in bed before he wakes  If it be possible . ( up with him ) And there  When he has slept it out , he will perhaps  Be cur'd , and give us answerable thanks :  If not , and that he be offended for  The breach of his command , in coming near him ;  He shall ne're know who did it .  Away then , softly , softly , so so , softly .  But you must ; 't is for the King .  God save the King , and blesse us all from witchcraft .  Fast asleep Sir , asleep Sir , look you here .  Or if your Majesty will know your self ,  ( A lesson which a King should not disdain  To learn ) look here , and read the difference ,  If you can find it .  None but our servants ,  Whom we dismis'd in the same saith that we  Were of our selves , that 't was your Majesty ;  And as we passd the Court none saw our carriage ,  Which we brought thus obscur'd that none might take  Notice of your infirmity .  Ods my pity ,  Be comforted good Madam , can you think  By casting down your selfe to raise them up  From death again ? what ? you have yet a Brother  May stead you for a Father , Husband ,  Friend , or what you will .  I have a mind to watch you though a little .  I have enough , listning is good sometimes .  Good Heaven ! who would have thought it ? stay ,  Let me not be too hasty .  O my good Lord , I do beseech your Honour ,  Forbear your fury ; I have such a business .  My Lord , my Lord ,  You are the Lord that I do look to live by .  And if I die my Lord , you lose the knowledge  Of such a secret .  'T is such a privity .  You will repent in Hell my Lord , if you or I  Should leave the world before you know the thing  That I can open to you ; which when I have unfolded ,  Kill me if you please . I did but watch occasion  To find you private to reveal it to you .  Thus it is my Lord ,  My Lord , your Father 's dead .  So is your elder Brother .  But are you sure th' are dead ?  For d' ye see my Lord ,  I would not in their life time have disclos'd  This hidden matter for a whole worlds good .  And thus it is , your Father and your Brother  Being dead , Heaven rest their souls .  Nothing my Lord , but now comes that concerns you ;  Your Father and your Brother being gone ,  ( Heaven rest their souls ) there I begin .  Now that concerns you ;  You think you have a Sister .  No truly my good Lord , you do but think so .  You hear me not say so , I saw her not  Since I left both of you together here .  Mildred is not your Sister .  Not your own natural Sister .  I mean , she was not born of the same mother ,  Nor got by the same father that you were .  My Lord , I can and will maintain it , I ,  Not only for some wrong she did me lately ,  Nor for the good my Lord that you may do me ,  Though all the estates your own when she 's discarded ;  But to let truth appear , which has been long  A burden , and an heavy burden , though I say 't ;  And so will any woman say , 't is to keep councel  So many years together as I have done ,  I had much a doe to keep it in , I wis ,  In my good old Lords dayes . Lord how he lov'd her !  But few men know their children , that 's the truth on 't ;  And let that go .  The point is this , I lov'd my old Lord well ;  Therefore was loth to grieve him ; and I lov'd  My good old Lady better ; therefore I kept  Her councel to this hour : You now are all  That 's left of 'em ; and whom should I love now  But your sweet self my Lord ? I 'l tell you all :  This Mildred , whom you so long call'd Sister ,  Was not your Fathers , nor your Mothers child ;  But in the absence of your Father , when  Sixteen years since he was sent by the King  Upon an embassie , your mother then with child ,  By sad mischance brought forth a still born babe ;  At the same time a Lady nobly born  Whose husband was in Exile , brought forth this ,  This Lady Mildred .  Yes , and by womans slight , of which this is  Not first example , th' Infants were exchang'd ;  Because your loving father might find joy  In a fair daughter at his home-return .  If in three dayes I do not  Make it appear most plain to you , multiply  Your wrath upon me .  We have no way my Lord , but to give way  Unto their violent rage , & quit the Court .  And madder too ; I cannot wonder  More what he is , then at the fate that sent him .  No , cause you said almost ;  But had you said you had been full as mad ,  You had pass'd a Subjects boldnesse .  My Lord , my Lord .  O my Lord ,  I told you late a wonder ; I bring now  A miracle , a miracle .  Your Brother is surviv'd from death again ;  My Lord Anthynus is come home and safe ,  The Heavens be prais'd .  Nay , run me in as far as you can if I lie ;  Up to the Hilts if I lie .  Nay , what he means I knew not , for he denies his name ,  Sayes he is not Anthynus , but a Northumbrian Gentleman ;  And desires conference with my Lady Mildred  From the fine Lord was here ( what call you him ? )  The Kings great Favourite ; But if I am I ,  If you are you , if any thing be any thing ,  It is Anthynus .  But Madam .  To night he 's troubled 'bout Anthynus coming ,  So that he will not think of lust or wantonnesse .  Well , since you are so resolute , would we were out of the  House once , if we be taken , 't is not the price of  A million of Maiden-heads , as the market goes , can save  Our lives .  Oh me ! we are undone and taken .  I saw one i' th next room  Drinking and singing catches with some Prisoners .  Withhold your hands , Anthynus now again ,  Fair Lady , is your brother .  To save you from your brother Offa's lust ,  I feign'd that you were not his Sister ; that  In hope to marry you , he might forbear  His divelish purpose .  Hark my Lord Anthynus .  Go to , go to ; nor you do not remember  How I behav'd my self upon the eating of Spurging  Comfects , that your Brother Offa gave me ,  And laid the fault on you ; pray Jove , I say , this murder  Be no more his fault then yours .  How he 's possess'd  Of that strange error ; I must satisfie you ?  That was meerly feign'd by me to save her honour  From his outragious lust . 