 Go Fiddle Patrico , and let me sing . First set me down here on both my Prats . Gently , gently , for cracking of my wind , now I must use it . Hem hem .  THis is Bien Bowse , this is Bien Bowse ,  Too little is my Skew .  I bowse no Lage , but a whole Gage  Of this I 'll bowse to you .  This Bowse is better then Rom-bowse ,  It sets the Gan a gigling ;  The Autum-Mort finds better sport  In bowsing then in nigling .  This is Bien-bowse &c.   Be of good cheer , Sweetheart , we have scap'd hitherto : And I believe that all the Search is now retir'd , and we may safely passe forwards .  We 'll venter at the next Village to call for some . The best is , we want no Money .  Be not so fearfull . Who can know us in these Clownish Habits ?  And yonder be some that can teach us .  Good Friend forbear . Here is no Master or Mistris . We are poor Folks . Thou seest no Worship upon our backs , I am sure . And for within , we want as much as you , and would as willingly beg , if we knew how as well .  What do you mean ; to poyson your self ?  Nay , if you think it hurts you not , fall too . I 'll not beguile you . And here , mine Host , something towards your Reckoning .  Here then in Charity . This fellow would never make a Cleark .  What have you done ? lesse would have serv'd . And your Bounty will betray us .  Thou art a heavenly Beggar !  You may say you have .  I 'll do for thee , that — thou shalt never beg more .  Sir , I believe —  Mine intent , Sir , and my onely way —  But Sir , an 't please you .  Sir , the old Gentlemen within , sent me to wait upon you . Without you ( they say ) they need not my Service .  O , Master Oldrent's man . Pray let me intreat you into the Buttery .  Indeed it is my Masters desire , and he commanded me .  Introth my Master is so merry with yours within —  The man 's as mad as his Master . The strangest strangers that ever came to our House .  You bear it very manfully , me thinks .  You speak very good sense , Sir . But do's my Master continue his merry humour with the old Gentlemen within .  Well said , Sir . Now you speak merrily too . But I could say somwhat that would still him . And for your comfort , I 'll tell you . Mistris Amie is fallen in love with one of the Beggars .  Ha ha ha —  He thinks you will be displeas'd with her , and chide her .  I must disprove the Contract . 