 Hee 's not Sir to be spoken with or seene  To any purpose , but by his Phisitians .  I cannot say how sick  He is ; nor can himselfe give any account  Of his condition : for he is mad sir .  Starke staring mad ; as mad  As you can thinke a Courtier must be  That is more mad then all the rest .  That sir has puzzell'd all the Doctors  In weighing all his severall wild affections ;  One findes he was ambitious of Court favour ,  And guesses he was cross'd in some great suite ;  Another takes him as he was a Souldier ,  And losing cost and travaile in the warre  Must lose his wits for that . A third collects  He was a Poet that drunk too deepe of Helicon ,  And turnd his braine in clyming of Parnassus :  A fourth considering that he was a Gamster  Long and much favourd , and uprais'd by fortune  To mountaynous heapes of Gold , conjectures , that  Some late unlucky hand or chance at play  Hath with his money swept his wit away .  Then sir a fift and youngst head among  The learned men ( what call you him for a Doctor ?  Hay that affects gay clothes and Flanders Laces ,  That trim effeminate Gentleman ) he  Has known this noble patient to have beene  An extreame Amorist , desperatly devoted  Unto the service of some threescore Ladies ,  And honord every one the most in costly presents ,  Banquets and Verses ; and thinks the disdaine  Of one or all of them has turnd his braine .  Some of your project searchers wait without sir  Loden it seemes with new intelligences .  So now the Game 's a foot . They hunt in full cry   Their Lives and credits , ha , ha , ha .  A wondrous strange ingagement  Your lives and goods ; your wives & children gentlemen !  That 's too deep set , and questions the Kings Mercy :  Me thinks it were enough , for non-performance  You would submit your bodies to perpetuall  Imprisonment at the Kings charge ; and leave  Your wives and children to their severall Parishes  You are still faithlesse sir , in all projects .  Do you hear sir ? Can you give me two sixpences  For a shilling — or any single money ?  Cry mercy , you weare none in ready coine ,  But all in Bullion lockt up in your brave-chests ,  And there you have the treasure of the Indies ;  Of deeper value , could it be digg'd out ,  Then all the Hollanders have waited for  These 7 yeares out of the Spanish plate fleets .  But put mine eye out ( now I dare you to 't )  With any single peece of ready money .  That 's no little marvaile .  There 's a capitall project .  They must then reape none  From Gallowses , nor Hospitalls ; from whence  They have had great supplies .  How if a man or woman shall desire  To weare a friends hayre so departed ; as  You his ; or your wife yours ; may 't not be had ?  You have in that said very well Sir too .  By the pox or so .  And what may this pride money amount unto  Per annum , can you guesse ?  Were not they gotten by Projectors think you ?  Heaven has heard my prayers .  But when he has travell'd  Till he has tir'd himselfe , he shall returne ,  And say All 's lost , i st not so Gentlemen ?  I wonder how you having stretch'd your throats  With the loud sounds of thousands , hundred thousands  Can , after all , so faintly whisper forth  One piece ; and that as much in vaine , as all  The massy summes : for all but brings you nothing ,  It shewes you Gentlemen of resolute patience ;  And would take thankfully I warrant you  An od halfe crowne amongst you : and what say you  To every man a kick on the condition ?  What say you to one with tother ?  Goe coine your bullion braines into the money  And come againe . My master was  Your Lord even now , as he was Lord of Beggers .  Out hundreds , thousands , ten thousands , hundred ,  thousands , Millions , ten Millions , Millions upon Millions  Away , I 'le stamp your buttocks into coyne else .  Ex. Projectors .   The Devill ride that hindmost of 'em , for  A raw bon'd Jade : Sfoot he has lam'd my toes .  To follow you in all things but in Projects .  You need not feare sir  But , good sir , no more projects .  Except it be the begging of this Madman  It can be nothing .  The Beggers best is that he feeles no shame :  Sprecious what meane you ? Ha' you forgot so soone  Your Fathers strict command , and he scarce gone yet ?  He gets no entrance to you . I must obay  A master though you can neglect a father .  I pitty you ,  And will do no more then you know how to aske  For your own good . I understand your cause  And can relieve you if you 'l yeild to councell .  His love is great and certaine ,  And all his travell is for your advancement :  But he goes blindfold on unprosperous wayes  Led by credulity . Projects ! pox o' projects  The patron of his projects is ( it seemes )  Pepper'd with madnesse . T is but Justice on him ,  And now I 'le give you a secret if you 'l promise  To be ruld by me .  This Ferdinand , your fathers great Court-godling  Nere sought you for a wife ; but to have whor'd you :  ( That is the English on 't ) and to appeare  A right great man in th' act , he would ha' made  By hopes and promises your credulous Father  The instrument of your prostitution :  Which to effect , ( though still he undertook  His hopefull projects ) cunning Lawyer-like  He crost or lost him still in all , on purpose  That poverty at length might urge him to  Give you to his dispose .  Away : some body comes .  You 'l never see him more then . Go to your chamber . A little patience and he shall be yours .  Poore heart I pitty her , and will labour for her .  You may not see her .  May not ! nay must not : shall not see her .  Her owne command  Warrants me speake it sir .  I have a sword speakes other language for me .  Sir , if you thinke to fight , talke not too much ;  Or , if you needs must talke , then heare as well .  Sir , I have more to say  Then fits this place , since you are apt to quarrell ;  And this no ground to bustle on : nor indeed  Where I dare for my honesty and trust  Allow you longer stay . If therefore you  Will walke , I 'le wait upon you ; and direct you  In a more ready way to finde Charissa .  O sir , a man  May come within his arme-reach of his money  In the Exchequer : but he must walke about  To finde due order e're he draw it out .  Sir , dare you trust me ?  Yet this is he  That did aspire to be a glorious Courtier .  What my master has suffer'd by his forgeries  I know to be the Shipwrack even of all  Except his Daughter , and what his ayme at her  Was I thinke appeares to you ; And what she might  Have suffer'd by 't we both may guesse : onely we hope  Her vertue would have bin a guard to her beauty .  That madnesse is his fate ; which renders him into my masters hands to restore all agen . I , note the Justice of it .  That foule mistrust much misbecomes a Love  Rejected sir ? by whom ? Charissa's constant to you ,  And time will cleare his frownes : and put you on  Now , the same confidence you had before ;  His wanting fortune rais'd a storme against you ,  Your noble friend Sir Raphael has already  By learned reasons and court-oratory  Prevayl'd for you to visit her : and now  Y' are come within the verge o' th' house , do you shrinke ?  See , a good Omen , they issue forth to meet you .  He is flown off agen .  Quick , quick ! I 'le stand before you .  For what offence ?  I am sure I bleed for 't .  Turn'd away :  As I was his servingman , I am rewarded ;  T is common with us creatures to serv'd so :  But , as I am no more his servant , I  Am free to vindicate my selfe out of  The wrong done to my blood ( which is the same  With his , ) by him rejected and despis'd .  Not to be spoken with at this time sir .  In good time sir .  Say you so sir ?  May I believe this ?  Is this upon your knowledge sir ?  This may prove sport and businesse too .  What if you take me into that something too ?  I guesse it is some stratagem to beguile  The cautious father of his injur'd daughter .  All this sir to a Madam .  He knowes not what you tell him .  Hee 's not so mad to fight yet I see that .  You may : For I dare trust you while I go call the Lady .  Exit .   I quit you of that sir .  To shew my gratitude .  You overpaid me for all my former services ,  For which I justly thought I ought you this .  One of my Masters Minions , a Projector . 