 ALL this needs not Sir Humphrey .  Nor J yours , Sir Humphrey ; Nor your Sonnes here ; Nor his Wifes there : Onely this Gentlewoman , in mine owne right J may be bold withall , while you depart my house , if you may be intreated , so . Is not this right ? Is not this plain ?  Good Whirly , what can his Worship speak ? Or your wisdome twatle for him , in this Cause ; that J do not understand already ? Has not his sonne wedded our Daughter ? How directly , or  indirectly , who meddles with his match ? Nay more , has he not bedded her ? How , directly or indirectly , who meddles with that either ? Let him have and hold , possesse ( Hmh. ) and enjoy ; do his worst , and make his best of her , though she be an Heire , J will not sue him out of her : No , J protest ; were it Ante Copulam , as it is post , J would not crosse 'em . Is not this right and plaine enough .  Keep your Brothers and your Goods to your selfe , Sir , I have no need of 'em .  You are a Knight , and a man of Worship —  J am a plaine Fellow , and out of debt .  J sought none of your Allyance , J —  Nor to be joyned with houses of great sound ,  Whose noise growes from their hollow emptinesse .  J could have matcht my Daughter here , that was ,  But now a Barronettesse in Reversion ,  To a substantiall Heire of two faire Lordships .  Yet honourable , Land-Lordship's reall honour ,  Though in a Trades-man Son : when your faire Titles  Are but the shadowes of your Ancestry ;  And you walk in 'em , when your Land is gone :  Like the pale Ghosts of dead Nobilitie .  Ha! I st not so ? Is not this right and plaine ?  Nay I come up to you now Sir Humfry Dryground ;  Up in a point of Chivalry . You are a Knight ,  A Baronet to boot : Your son is like  T' inherit that deare paid-for title , but  ( You le give me leave to use my plainnesse )  Your son ( I say ) is Heire to your bought honour .  Which may hereafter Ladifie my Daughter :  But where 's the Land you once were Lord of ? Ha!  The goodly Cornfields , Medows , Woods , and Pastures ,  That must maintain the House , the Gownes , the Coach ,  With all by complements of Horses , Hawks , and Hounds .  Where be the Parks , the Warrens , Herds , and Flocks ?  Besides the Gardens , Orchards , Walks , and Fish-ponds ?  Ods pitty , give me leave ,  You , that had all these once , in three faire Lordships ,  To be wrought on , and tonyed out of all ,  But a small pittance of Trois Cents per Annum ,  By Providence intayld upon the Heire ,  ( Or thad had wasted too ) which now maintaines you ,  In a proportion of Smoak , and Sack ,  To wash your mouth with after , where you live  Confin'd in Milford Lane , or Fullers Rents ,  Or who knows where , it skills not —  Can you ( I say ) think your good husbandry  A lawfull Precedent for your Gamesome son  To make my Daughter happy in a Marriage ,  Though he had twice my Fortunes ?  But here 's the substance of 't , you have my Daughter ,  Your Son , sir , has my Daughter , that must have ,  And shall , my whole Estate at my Decease ;  ( No Law exacts it sooner ) This Estate  You safely may suppose ten thousand pounds ,  Which J have got by thrifty Industry .  Onely one thousand , J confesse , my Wife  Improv'd my Fortune with , Here 's the just summe .  I give her leave to give it to her Daughter :  She may endow her Husband with it . So ,  Is not this plaine ? Now note me further , sir ;  What J have left is my owne ; and you , sir , may  Which what is theirs take hence your Son & Daughter ,  Till you shall heare old Bumpsey is deceast .  Then let him come , and challenge all — that 's left ;  Mean time J know my course .  sh't , sh't , sh't ; Woman come you with me .  Shall not ! He shall sure : Ods pity ! shall not : Are you pleas'd to speak , sir .  Not to a Fiddlestick . Shall not ! Can you speak or not ?  If not , pray yell me so .  You may thank her Mother for 't , not me .  Well , will you speake ?  Well .  Would I could heare it once .  And why the thousand pound ; doe's 't burn your Fingers ?  Give us but meat and lodging for t : My Father ,  Out of his little left Estate will give us  A hundred yearely for other necessaries .  With all my heart .  Humh ! A pretty od speech this ! I would I knew  The meaning on 't .  Ha! Is it so ? Then J come to a point with you .  You look , Sir , in my Daughters right , to have ,  After my death , my whole Estate , by shewing  Me , in my life time , your good husbandry , by husbanding of nothing :  Y' have tane off halfe my purpose ; for J meant  To have kept it in my power , whether to leave her  Any , or nothing : And , perhaps ( d' yee heare )  By an odd course , that J was thinking on  To ha' made all nothing ere J dy'd : But now  Halfe of that power I le put into your hands ,  I le try what you can do with something .  Even halfe of all J have .  And as he deals with that , I le use the rest .  Never by you 'gainst this :  I le give him instantly the free possession  Of halfe J have : Now marke ; if you increase ,  Or keep that halfe , then , doubtlesse , J shall do ,  As well with tother for you : If you diminish  Or waste it all , I le do the like with my part .  I le do 't : Together we will live :  And I le along with you in your owne course ,  And , as you play your game , you win or lose all :  Thrive and I le thrive : Spend you , and J will spend :  Save , and I le save ; scatter , and I le scatter .  I le do 't : Let him throw Money  Into the Thames , make Ducks and Drakes with Peices ,  I le do the like : till he has made a match  Or no match of my Daughter : There 's the point  And the whole substance on 't .  Will I ? T is done . I le make him a good husband ,  Or be no husband for him : And so see  What 's mine , out of the danger of his waste ,  And have some sport too for my Money : Ha!  I love to do these things .  In nothing 'gainst this course , good whirly : no ,  T is so set downe . I know I shall be counted  An odde old humorous Cockscombe for 't by some :  But the truth is , I love to do these things :  And so God gi yee joy .  Not so I hope , Sir Humfry .  At your pleasure Sir .  At your own good time Sir -  Exit Drygr .   These shall stay here , I le blindfold them with Money ,  And by a new way try , if they can grope  The right way into th' World . Come your way .  NAy , nay , I know he is flown out , and I  Am prettily provided for like flight :  And if I do not pitch as high , and souse  As deep , as he , while there is Game to fly at —  Five hundred Peices he took out you say ?  That 's hee , that 's he ! Why this is excellent .  I force him , ha ?  Good Mrs. At-a-word .  Let not your fine French Frippery , which I bought ,  Turn'd o th' Taylors hands ( as one would say )  Huffle you up to Soveraignty : Nor your Coach ,  Which I have but bespoak , whirle you away ,  Before t is finish'd ) from obedience .  Excellent Magadalen !  And speak allow'd too ; will you Magdalen ?  This is most excellent ! My old Beast is  Infected with the Fashions ; Fashion-sick !  Pray Ma-dame take your course , uphold your Fashion :  And learn and practise Carriage to your Cloaths :  I will maintain my humour , though all split by 't . —  Ifaith I will Ma-dame . —  [ Exit with Servant . ]   Do you wonder at my bravery ? Look you here :  This is my Wife ; and this my Daughter , sir .  You have lost yours , you say : Perhaps for want  Of Husty-lusties , and of Gorgets gay .  Ha! i st not so ?  Shall I be plain w' ye ;  My best advise is , since your Daughters gone ,  To turn your Son after her . He lies not in  For much above a hundred pound . Pay it ,  And let him take his course : If he be not  Got loose already . Then ( observe my Counsell )  Spend you the rest of your Estate your selfe ;  And save your Heires the sin . It is the course  I have in hand , and mean to follow it .  You like it not ( it seems ) but thus it is ,  VVhen men advise for nothing . Had your Lawyer  Now for his fee , given Counsell , might have damn'd you :  You would have thought it worth your Gold , and follow'd it .  VVill you go with me to an Ordinary ?  Venter five hundred or a thousand Peeces ,  To begin a new VVorld with .  How Lady-like she talkes !  What 's the matter Jane ?  In the name of Peasantry , what Knight art thou ,  If not the Knight of the Plough-share ?  What old youth can this be ?  Do you think she would drown her selfe ?  What a youth 's this for a Knight !  Od's pity . Look you , sir , your Son-in-Law , that should ha' been , is in much passion too . But you 'll be rul'd by me , you say . And if J lead you not to comfort , never trust Neigbours counsell while you live . Is not this plain enough ? My own case at this time is as dangerous as yours .  Neighbourly said . I thank you . Come , Sir , will you joyn with your Father-in Law that should ha' been , and me in a Cup of VVine to order a designe .  It shall cost you nothing .  As with your part of three halfe pintes of Sack .  We had no more amongst us .  But now I love to do these things .  Well the point is : My swaggering Son-in-Law ,  Appointed to be here among the Trees .  My Daughter told me so . Walk here-about .  If he can give light of your light , hee 'd chide .  Well try what may be done . I le but step up  Into Ram-Alley-Sanctuary , to Debtor ,  That praies and watches there for a Protection ;  And presently return to you . —  Exit .   What 's here ? Worrying of Vermine ?  No : I le deliver him the use of all .  And all is this ( as I advis'd before . )  Spend all your selfe , and save your Heires the sin ;  The shame , the sorrows , and the punishments ,  That are joynt-heritable with your wealth :  As very learnedly hath been related .  And there 's the point , and the whole substance on 't .  Sir , my condition runs another way .  To the same end perhaps ; following my Leader , here .  Come Sir , lead on , I heare you are provided  Five hundred thick for this free nights adventure .  I am so too Sir .  And here it is : And here it is , and here and there , and here it is .  I le make one w' ye at your new Ordinary ,  They lay t is excellent .  Hang nothing . Be it as t will ,  I am for any thing ; and as well provided ,  As you , or any the best Gamester there .  I love to do these things . But first , pray tel me  Can you tell tale or tydings of his Daughter here ?  What is it , J will see it .  Look you , t is cover'd .  Sir , after you , and 't be to my last sixpence .  I will keep Covenant w' ye .  Done Sir : there t is .  Your meaning is , you would buy her out of her Calling .  Is it not so ?  Here 's ten more  To bind you quite from begging . Can you afford it ?  If yes , accept it . And let 's see your back .  Now , what 's the next vagary ?  J would 't had been thine owne case two dayes since .  One of your fine Companions , some poor Shark ?  Ha , i st not so ?  J am halfe sick of this Condition !  J do begin , not altogether , now ,  To love these things so well methinks . Humh ha !  Yes : J go .  Exeunt ambo .   So , cheare her up Sir Humfry . To her againe Sir Humfry ; your Sonne and mine in Law has told me all your story , and reconcil'd your Brother Brookall to you before your interview . I know all , the full point and the whole substance ; the flat and plaine of the businesse ; and now I love these things againe . How now Sir Amphilus  Drown'd in Melancholly ?  Shall I tell you Neighbour ? Law has no reliefe for you ; And Conscience and you have a longe time been strangers . Could you be friends and embrace Conscience now , all would be well . And there 's the substance . Is it plaine ?  Ha! Think you so ? T is your own flesh and blood : And by your leave and liking , may prove as honest a Man , as his Father . Is not this plaine now ? Forgive and blesse em all over , and so Kisse 'em too . They are your Children .  Peace , peace : All 's well . At least I know your Disease . 