 Beggars ! They are the only people , can boast the benefit of a free state , in the full enioyment of Liberty , Mirth and Ease ; having all things in common and nothing wanting of Natures whole provision within the reach of their desires . Who would have lost this sight of their Revels ?  Why Ladies , you have liberty enough ; or may take what you please .  'T is like that course will cure him , would you imbrace it .  But there ha' been new Playes since .  What think you of a Journey to the Bath then ?  Think of some course your selves then . We are for you upon any way , as far as Horse and Money can carry us .  What think you of a Pilgrimage to St. Winifrides Well ?  They are not scrupulous in that , we having had their growing loves up from our Childhoods ; and the old Squire 's good will before all men .  Some merry one it seems .  Some wonderful Nothing sure . They will laugh as much to see a swallow flie with a white feather imp'd in her tail .  Pray let us hear it . You know we are your trusty servants .  It seems so by your laughing .  I , and go to 't with you , wherever it be .  When ?  A simple trial of our Loves and service !  We now beg ,  That we may fetch the Rings and Priest to marry us .  Wherein are we no Beggars ?  Why so we may be a kinde of civil Beggars .  Stockant , whippant Beggars !  And we were madder then they , if we should lose 'em .  We are most resolutely for you in your course .  But how to enter or arrange our selves into the Crew will be the difficulty . If we light raw and tame amongst 'em ( like Cage-Birds among a flight of wild ones ) we shall never pick up a Living , but have our brains peckt out .  O here comes Springlove . His great Benefactorship among the Beggars might prefer us with Authority into a ragged Regiment presently . Shall I put it to him .  We have seen all with great delight and admiration .  Art thou an Hypocrite , then , all this while ?  Onely pretending Charity ; or using it  To get a Name and Praise unto thy self ;  And not to cherish and increase those Creatures ,  In their most happy way of living ? Or  Dost thou bestow thine Alms with a foul purpose  To stint their Begging , and with loss to buy  And slave those free souls from their liberty ?  Pray let us make vertuous use of it : and repent us of that deadly sin ( before a greater punishment then Famine and Lice fall upon us ) by steering our course homeward . Before I 'll indure such another night —  I hope shee does not . For I know there is no altering our course before they make the first motion .  They are the stronger in will it seems .  Lightning and Tempest is out of thy Letany .  Could not the thunder wake thee ?  Nor the Hogs in the hovel , that cri'd till they drown'd the noise of the winde ? If I could but once ha dreamt in all my former nights , that such an affliction could have been found among Beggars , sure I should never have travell'd to the proof on 't .  Nor did that onely draw us forth ( by your favour Vince ) but our obedience to our Loves , which we must suffer , till they cry home agen . Are they not weary yet , as much as we dost think Springlove ?  Are they ready to appear out of their privy Lodgings , in the Pigs Palace of pleasure ? Are they coming forth ?  We do not look like men , I hope , too good to learn .  Prethee hold thy peace ( here be doleful  Notes indeed ) and leave us to our own Genius . If we must beg , let 's let it go , as it comes , by Inspiration . I love not your set form of Begging .  O here they come now ; Madam Fewcloaths , and my Lady Bonnyrag .  How fairer , then faire Floras self appear  ( To deck the Spring ) Diana's Darlings dear !  O let us not Acteon-like be strook  ( With greedy eyes while we presume to look  On your half nakedness , since courteous rags  Cover the rest ) into the shape of Stags .  And so will we . I can hold out no longer .  No more must we , if wee 'l be theirs .  Or cut the Lechers throat .  True , politique Springlove , 't was better his own fear quit us of him , than our force .  Yet we put it up in your Service .  There 's no flinching back , you see .  I 'll single no more . If you 'l beg in full cry I am for you .  No smocks or Petticoats to hide our Scratches .  If we follow the Devil that taught us to beg .  There is no life but it .  Of ours , he means .  We have no fear of lessening our Estates ;  Nor any grudge with us ( without Taxation )  To lend or give , upon command , the whole  Strength of our Wealth for publick Benefit :  While some , that are held rich in their Abundance ,  ( Which is their Misery , indeed ) will see  Rather a generall ruine upon all ,  Then give a Scruple to prevent the Fall .  Whether we seem to like , or dislike , all 's one to them .  That 's no Rime , Poet .  Hay lusty . Hay Holy-day .  Sure they will kill one another .  What Persons want you ? what would you present ?  Or I .  What must he be ?  Come , where 's this Patrico , that we may begin ?  If the good hour be come , welcome by the grace of good Fortune .  We will be taken , and disclose our selves . You see we shall be forc'd to it else . The cowardly Cleark has don 't to save himself .  To wait on you in any course . 