 And though I know we have merrier Spirits then they , yet to live thus confin'd , stifles us .  And then at home here , or wheresoever he comes , our Father is so pensive , ( what muddy spirit soe're possesses him , would I could conjure 't out )  that he makes us even sick of his sadness , that were wont to see my Ghossips cock to day ; mould Cocklebread ; daunce clutterdepouch ; and Hannykin booby ; binde barrels ; or do any thing before him , and he would laugh at us .  Does he think us Whores tro , because sometimes we talke as lightly as great Ladies . I can swear safely for the virginity of one of us , so far as Word and Deed goes ; marry Thought 's free .  Good sister Meriel , Charity begins at home . But I 'l swear I think as charitably of thee : And not onely because thou art a year younger neither .  We will have him cur'd first , I tell you : And you shall wait that season , and our leasure .  Or I to stay in his house ; to give entertainment to this Knight , or t'other Coxcomb , that comes to cheer him up with eating of his chear : when we must fetch 'em sweetmeats , and they must tell us , Ladies , your lips are sweeter , and then fall into Courtship , one in a set speech taken out of old Britains Works , another with Verses out of the Academy of Complements , or some or other of the new Poetical Pamphletters , ambitious onely to spoile Paper , and publish their names in print . And then to be kist , and sometimes slaver'd — fagh .  We have seen all already there , as well as they , last year .  No : no : we are not for London .  Worse then t' other way . I love not to carry my Health where others drop their Diseases . There 's no sport i' that .  And we will put you to 't . Come aside Meriel —  Aside .   Me . Ha ha ha —  Me . Ha ha ha ha —  And then , sirrah Meriel — Heark agen — ha ha ha —  Me . Ha ha ha —  It is more precious , then to be imparted upon a slight demand .  Yes , you have plaid at all kinds of small game with us ; but this is to the purpose . Ha ha ha —  And asks a stronger tongue-tie then tearing of Books ; burning of Samplers ; making Dirt-pies ; or piss and paddle in 't .  Why Gentlemen — ha ha — Thus it is — Tell it you Meriel .  You are the younger . I command you tell it . Come , out with it They long to have it .  Then Gentlemen stand your ground .  You seem'd e'n now to admire the felicity of Beggars .  Will you now with us , and for our sakes turn Beggars ?  But for a Time , and a short Progress .  Are you resolv'd upon 't ? If not God bw'y ' . We are resolv'd to take our course .  That will not serve . Your time 's not come for that yet .  You shall beg Victuals first .  I mean stark , errant , downright Beggars , I , Without equivocation ; Statute Beggars .  Such as we saw so merry ; and you concluded Were th' onely happy People in a Nation .  Such as of all mens Meat and all mens Money  Take a free part ; and , wheresoe're they travel .  Have all things gratis to their hands provided .  Their stomack makes it good ;  And feasts on that , which others scorn for Food .  Pray Gentlemen be sudden .  Heark , you hear the Cuckoe .  Cuckoe    We have projected it . Now if you be perfect and constant Lovers and friends , search you the means . We have puzzell'd 'em .  Take heed what you do . His greatness with my Father will betray us .  He grows zealous in the Cause : sure he 'll beg indeed .  Hold thy peace , good Springlove ,  And , tho' you seem to dislike this course , and reprove us for it ,  Do not betray us in it : your throat 's in question .  I tell you for good will . good Springlove .  Let him be griev'd then , till we are Beggars ,  We have just reason to become so now :  And , what we thought on but in jest before ,  We 'll do in earnest now .  Have a care , good Meriel , what hearts or limbs soever we have , and tho' never so feeble , let us set our best faces on 't , and laugh our last gasp out before we discover any dislike , or weariness to them . Let us bear it out , till they complain first , and beg to carry us home a pick pack .  Think not on 't . I am numm'd i' the bum and shoulders too a little . And have found the difference between a hard floor with a little straw , and a down Bed with a Quilt upon 't . But no words , nor a sowre look I prethee .  Mer. . Ha ha ha .  So do's the Subject .  Now you appear the glories of the Spring ,  Darlings of Phoebus and the Somers heirs .  Mer. . Ha ha ha — Wee are glad you are so merry .  Do's the straw stir up your flesh to 't , Gentlemen ?  O 't was excellent ! I feel it good still , here .  Yes . You ga' me none on 't . You ever covet to have all the Beauty . 'T is the ambition of all younger Sisters .  Sir , I beseech you look upon us with the favour of a Gentleman . We are in a present distress , and utterly unacquainted in these parts ; and therefore forc'd by the Calamity of our mis-fortune , to implore the Courtesie , or rather Charity , of those to whom we are strangers .  May we expect a gracious Answer from you Sir ?  That you never be deny'd a Suit by any Mistriss .  That your Virtue and Valour may lead you to the most honourable Actions ; and that the Love of all exquisite Ladies may arm you .  And that with her you have a long and prosperous life .  By influence of our Stars , Sir .  Our speech came naturally to us , and we ever lov'd to learn by wrote as well as we could .  Pray Sir your noble bounty .  Sir , are you mov'd in charity towards us yet ?  Sir , Noble Sir .  You will tell now .  Mer. . Sir . Sir .  Now , will you , Sir , be pleas'd ?  Me . We thank you , Sir .  Me . Ah ah —  O you hurt my hand .  Look you here , Gentlemen , twelvepence a peece   Mer. . Ha ha ha . Switches and kicks . Ha ha ha —  Hold out , Meriel .  No Shooes to our Legs , or Hose to our Feet .  Yes : and here we may pursue our own Discourse , and hear one another .  Our Minds and Blood are still the same .  I have not seen the Wretch these three hours , whither is he gone ?  I , didst thou mark what a wilde look he cast , when Springlove tumbled her , and kist her on the Straw this morning , while the Musick plaid to the old Wedding-Folks ?  Matrimony forbid else . ( She 's taken . ) But while we talk of a Match towards , we are mist within in the Bride-Barn among the Revell rout .  What Feoffees , she being an Heire of fourescore , ( and seven yeers stone-blinde ) had , in trust for her Estate .  And then , how solemnly they were joyn'd , and admonish'd , by our Parson Vnder-hedge , to live together in the fear of the Lash , and give good example to the younger Reprobates , to beg within Compasse , to escape the jaws of the Justice , the Clutch of the Constable , the Hooks of the Headborough , and the biting blows of the Beadle . And , in so doing , they should defie the Devill , and all his Works , and after their painfull Pilgrimage in this life , they should die in the Ditch of Delight .  So may some Wives that were married at sixteen , to Lads of one and twenty .  You are . I am glad on 't .  I 'm glad you are so taken with your Calling .  The Mirth , the Pleasure , the Delights . No Ladies live such Lives .  I 'll be Vtopia ; who must be my Branches ?  Mer. . Good your good Worship , duly and truly , &c.   Dost think it a shame to leave Begging ?  Our Father's sadnesse will not suffer us To live in 's House .  Suppose we 'll go a begging .  Long since . We onely stood till you shook off your Sadnesse .  And you the Gentleman ( I take it ) that would have made Beggar-sport with us , two at once . 