 He might have call'd me first , I am the Eldest .  Then I must be last .  At last , yet I am thought on .  You ask me last  Sir I presume , cause you have had me longest ,  To crown their testimony .  Lesse then due  I dare not give you ; and more were to abuse you .  Though I do not applaud , I must approve  You are a right good father .  I have observ'd , but specially at Court ,  Where flattery is too frequent , the great scorn  You have ever cast upon it , and do fear  To come within such danger of reproof .  Knowing your reason may as well detest it  In your own house , as in Kings Pallaces .  And when I hear another ( my dear Sister ,  Heaven know I mean not you )  Speak like a flatterer , I hold my peace ,  And so come short of doing what I would ,  For fear of over-doing . But honour'd Sir ,  When a Son can be found that dares do more  For 's Fathers life or honour then my self ,  I 'l forfeit mine inheritance and your blessing ;  So much your love engages me .  Son ! It is holyday with me to . 'T is  The first time he call'd me Son these three years .  Not I Sir , by your favour .  I must be nearer you . I kneel for 't Sir ,  And humbly pray I may not be denied  To wait on you in Exile . Take me with you .  Far be it from my thoughts dear Sir , consider  He has had that rule already divers years  Ere since my mother die , and been your darling  Heaven knows without my grudge , while you were pleas'd .  I never envied him , though I have found  You have severely over look'd my Actions ,  When you have smil'd on his , though but the same .  I have been still content while I have found my duty firm .  You have new begotten me .  It seems their aym was at our blood , not means .  And doubtlesse they were some that knew our persons  Through our disguises , and persu'd us hither  With an inveterate malice to destroy us  In this wild Desart .  Not touch'd ,  To the least danger of one drop of blood   Had they been forty Sir , while I was arm'd  By your white Innocence and holy Prayers ,  Heavens justice lent me hands to beat them off .  Yet give me leave dear Sir , to ask you now  Why you have bent your Pilgrimage this way ?  Leading into a country of more danger  Unto your life and safety , then your own  Northumberland , whose King cannot but rage  In greater heat against you then the Queen ,  That so unjustly banish'd you ; you may fall  ( Though you escape the danger of this Forrest )  Into the reach of his revengeful fury .  But made you none  Acquainted that you meant to travel this way ?  Then sure the Queen  Sent her Blood-hounds after you ; I perceive  They could not be mere Thieves .  Take greater courage then .  This sword thou never handlest more . Take you it and fresh courage Sir .  Anth. Beats off the other and speaks on   May you not cease your flight till you reach Hell ,  That bred ye villans ; to pursue ye further  Were to neglect a nearer duty .  Dear honour'd Sir , look up ;  Father , how do you ?  He means with death ,  Alas he 's deeply wounded and bleeds much .  But what do I in this ? I have not tears  Enough to wash these wounds , although some linnen  To bind them up . But mearly to bewail him  With looks and lamentations is as fruitlesse  As here to leave him languishing to death ,  And run in pursuit of his enemies  To work revenge , Neither of these bring ease .  Mount up my thoughts to Heaven then for a blessing  Upon my ready industry , and let each faculty  Of mine as prompt to works and prayers be .  How is it now Sir ? do I not bind it too hard ?  Pray Sir speak to me .  Offa is not here Sir , 't is I , your son Anthynus .  Why look you on that sword so ?  Pray Sir look on me , I fear his memory fails him .  And as his mind was ever on Offa  Before unfortunate me ; so now he gives  The merit that belongs ( if any be )  Due to the duty of a son in this  From me to him . But envy be thou from me .  Why look you on that sword , and not on me ?  'T was I that wonne it for you .  That 's well said Sir , speak though but faintly to me ,  I had rather hear your groans then find you speechlesse ,  Better will come I hope .  That 's comfortably spoken ; so , well done  Like a strong man again .  Rest upon me , my strength , my all is yours .  Aeneas that true Troian son , whose fame  For piety ever crowns his name  Had not a will ( although my means be poor )  Exceeding mine to answer nature more ,  Well said , that step became you , we shall on  I see apace , give me your sword , it troubles you .  That 's the best sign of all .  Keep it and hold it fast Sir , we will back  A little to the Spring we came by , where  I 'l somewhat more accommodate your wounds .  Heaven , which mens honest pains doth ever blesse ,  Will when we least can hope afford redresse .  Can no release be had ? is this the place ,  That cursed piece of ground which Nature meant  Should be call'd Hell on Earth ? where outrage reigns ,  Murder and cruelty beyond it ; deep despair  To a poor remnant of distressed life  Of al reviving comforts , food , or medicine ?  And must we needs be set  By the malitious ignorance of Fortune  On this internal way ?  Where ill abounds , and every good is wanting ,  Was 't not enough that so much blood was spilt  From this white reverend head , from which hath flow'd  Counsels that have preserv'd the blood of Nations ?  And fitter now to wear a Diadem  It self , then thus be stain'd with his own wrong .  Had it not been enough to have left him so ,  Thou Tyrant Fortune , but to take away  All means of Succour ? no relief ? no comfort ?  And see , see ,  Accursed Fate ! he bleeds a fresh again ,  As if his blood I now but wash'd away  Cry'd for the rest to follow it .  Me you have justly chidden , and I beg  Pardon of Heaven and you , and now methinks  I am inspir'd unto a further duty  Of seeking remedy . I 'l leave no way untried  To find it , if I may . And though my absence  Will sore perplex me ; I will with your grief  Leave you a while to forrage for relief .  But first pray let me change a sword with you Sir ;  Not that I think yours better , but because  I fear some charm is in 't , or secret ill  Gainst you , you sigh so when you view it still   So strengthned I shall sure find remedy  To raise you out of this calamity .  I come my Father , chide not now my stay ;  In which I was more tardy I confesse ,  Then e're I was in duty . I have brought you —  Where are you Sir ? Ha! this was sure the place ,  And this the very Oak at which I left him ;  I mark'd it carefully , and took due heed  Even to the number of my steps in my  Departure , how to make my back return ,  Nor was my tarriance such , that in that space  He could recover strength to shift his ground .  I wish it were so well with him . My Lord ,  My father , what a mist of doubts stand I  Amaz'd in ? and my unspeakable amazement  Is such , that I begin to call my sight  And memory in question , whither this place ?  Or whither he ? or I ? or any thing  Be , or be not ; good senses do not leave me ,  My search will be in vain if you forsake me .  Father , my Lord ! where are you ? how ? or where ?  That was well said , speak on .  Now where ?  Now here ? where is that here ?  I hear and follow , but I know not where .  At the same place again ?  If there be place , or I know any thing ,  How is my willingness in search deluded ?  It is the Wood that rings with my complaint ,  And mocking Eccho makes her merry with it .  Curs'd be thy babling , and mayst thou become  A sport for wanton boys in thy fond answers ,  Or stay , perhaps it was some gentle Spirit  Hovering i th' Air , that saw his flight to Heaven ,  And would direct me thither after him .  Good reason , leave me not , but give me leave  A little to consider nearer home ;  Say his diviner part be taken up  To those celestial joys , where blessed ones  Find their inheritance of immortality .  I cannot think his earthly properties  So soon could find the passage to that height .  His body would be here , poor martyr'd body ,  That though it yet did live , could not part hence  Without the help of others legs & hands .  And here haunt none , but such whose Cruelty  Would tosse him into further misery .  Wild Beasts , if here were any half so ravenous  As those inhumane mankind monsters were ,  ( That drew his blood and these unusual tears )  Could not devour him all , some particle ,  Some remnant would be left to blesse a Son with .  But here is none but that too sure a sign  For me to know the place by , where I left him .  Part of the blood I saw run from him . O  Dear hallowed blood inspire me with this kisse  To find the fountain whence this stream did flow .  I will not eat , nor sleep until I know .  No ? canst thou tell me nothing ? Then I 'l take  A Sample of the precious store was spilt ,  To keep me still in memory of the guilt :  And of my vow , never to feed or rest ,  Until I find him here , or with the blest .  To fast and watch is duty , and no Penance ,  When such affairs as mine are in pursuit .  How dare I think of meat or sleep , which are  Such hindrances to a devotion  Whose least neglect would pull down Thunder on me ;  And to take sense of weariness were a sin  Unpardonable . But to have lost 3. dayes  And tedious nights in painful diligence ,  In such a search as this , for such a father ;  And now to lose the hope of finding him  Is torment unexpressible . Where ? which way  Shall I make further inquisition ?  Yes , I will on to the Northumbrian Court ,  And make my griefs appear unto the King .  My wandring steps have almost lead me now  Unto his Court ; where if I may find grace ,  Nay but humanity , I shall prevail  To have these woods , the dens of barbarous Outlaws ,  In which I lost my Father , strictly search'd .  Recorders   Ha! do I hear or dream ? is this a sound ,  Or is it but my fancy ? 't is the musick ,  The musick of the Spheres that do applaud  My purpose of proceeding to the King .  I 'l on ; but stay ; how ? what a strange benummednesse  Assails and siezes my exteriour parts ?  And what a Chaos of confused thoughts  Does my imagination labour with ?  Till all have wrought themselves into a lump  Of heaviness , that falls upon mine eyes  So ponderously that it bows down my head ,  Begins to curb the motion of my tongue ,  And lays such weight of dulness on my Senses ,  That my weak knees are doubling under me .  There is some charm upon me . Come thou forth  Thou sacred Relique ! suddainly dissolve it .  I sleep with deathlesse ; for if thus I fall ,  My vow falls on me , and smites me into Ruine .  But who can stand against the power of Fate ?  Though we foreknow repentance comes too late   Am I among the dead ? or in what Region  Either of Earth or Air ? Heaven ? Hell ? or whither ?  Or into what am I translated ? Am I  Alive , or dead , awake , asleep , a man ,  Or airy ghost ? or did I see or dream ?  If now I be awake , and am Anthynus ,  That griev'd Anthynus who has lost a  Then did I see in apparition  The ghosts of our 6. last West Saxon Father , Kings ,  As each succeeded other now passed by me .  Of which the last Kenwalcus our late King ,  And father to the Tyrannesse that banish'd  Mine , seemed to take me up to his succession ;  It were more idle then a dream can be ,  For me awake to think it possible  I should become a King , and of that land  From which my father was exild ; it must  Be then a dream . As I have heard of men  That sleeping stand , nay walk and talk as I do ,  At least as I suppose . Now if I sleep  Not having seen my father , I have broke  My vow ; I 'l rather think me dead ; then why  Was I not blest with my dead Fathers sight ?  Why was not he with King Kenwalcus now  That living lov'd him so ? O my wild thoughts !  You are become a whirlwind in my brain  Lifting me up to hurle me down again   What Fiends or Fairies are ye ?  What ? new tormentors ? or into what way  Of further mischief do ye mean to throw me ?  Highnesse ?  Have you that mockery for me too ? I told  The rest that slav'd me with that attribute ,  From whence I came , who , what I was , and all  The story of my fathers wrongs , and mine  ( Too many ever to have been , but heaven  Mark'd 'em out for us ) and I told 'em too  What I had undertane by Watching , Fasting ,  Prayers too ( unfit to boast of ) with the Industry  I practic'd to have found my wounded Father .  For which ( as though I durst have faith in merits )  They mock'd me with the title of a King ,  And bound me here as they thought to believe it .  'T is a new way of punishment ; and were due  To one that thought his duty meritorious .  But I will break these Gives , and with my teeth  Tear off these manacles .  Thy Liege , Dog-leech ? are you at that garb too ?  I wish I had one finger loose to fillip out  Thy brains and skill together for the Ratcatchers .  Sir , yet may be endured .  A grave perswasion to a man that 's tied to 't .  Humb , humb , humb .  Have you concluded yet your barbarous councel ?  If not , take my advice with ye : call the King ,  The King with whose authority you scorn me ;  Let him but hear ( for you will never tell him )  From my own lips how willingly I 'l give  My voice unto his marriage ; and I 'm sure  He 'l set me free ; at least by death .  Sleep ? make no doubt of that ; look , I can sleep ,  With as much ease as one bound in a Cart ,  Driving to execution . But do you hear ?  My vow was not to sleep nor eat untill  I had perform'd a work , which I shall never ,  Never accomplish , now my vow is broken .  For they by witchcraft charm'd me into sleep ,  And tempted me with meat at unawares ,  Before my sleep-drown'd senses were collected ;  And put me on these unknown garments here ,  With an hayl Master ; so betray'd me into  This irksome folly , or this foolish thraldome .  My Favourite , and my Queen ! leave these abuses ;  My hands and feet are now at liberty   Would to heaven ,  I could unfold this mystery .  If I could think this serious , 't were enough  Almost to turn my sorrows into laughter .  I feel a secret instigation in me ,  I hope by some good Angel that inclines me ,  At last to yield a little to these men .  What wouldst thou say ?  Good memory help me ; this is of the Queen ,  The cruel Queen that banish'd my good Father ;  And this the lively Image of my Sister .  I have found all the error , and am taught  By hidden inspiration to make use on 't .  Genius still whispers him .   Give me fresh rayment , I 'l take all upon me  ( Their Crown if they will give it ) yet me thinks  This is so like a dream — where else can be  King Osriick all this while , that he comes not  To throw me out of this usurped right ?  Strange and new thoughts possesse me .  Gen. whispers   Now I call  To mind the vision that I had of being  Call'd to the Throne of the west Saxons Kings .  It must be by this Queen , whom how to love  I cannot find . My Genius promps me , yes  I hear it now , as by an Angel spoke .  And that my vow was rashly made , well broke ;  I am confirm'd , & come she I am for her .  puts on Hat , Feather , and Cloke ) ex . Genius .   Well said Theodrick ; ( Theodrick is his name ? )  How do I look Theodrick ?  Well said , thou never flatterest .  What 's thy news ?  I joyn with ye in your wishes for the Queen ;  And wish well to King Osriick as a stranger .  But will no longer personate him ;  For now be it known to you that I am no Osriick ;  But he that warns you call me so no more .  Nay , Madam , 't is most serious .  I have told you truth , and your fair grace can witnesse  How violently I was thrown upon the fortune ,  I thank those provident Lords , against my vow .  Now further know , my Lords , I am Anthynus ,  The Son of that old honest Lord , 'gainst whom  Your sulphurous malice kindled the Queens anger .  My Sister Mildred .  But not great Sir , untill  You are acquitted of my fathers murder .  He is distracted .  Incestuous monster !  My Father .  Mine .  Take him hence  From my grieved fathers sight .  I have heard of them that robb'd my brothers Jewel-house .  'T is a day of grace ,  And we are taught by heavens abundant mercy  Shewn upon us beyond our expectation ,  To imitate that goodnesse .  Thus through tempestuous sighs and showres of tears  Joy at the last more cheerfully appears . 