 I have forgiven you . Provided that my Neece be safely taken ; and so to be brought home . Safely , I say , that is to say , unstain'd , unblemish'd , undishonour'd ; that is to say , with no more faults , criminall , or accusative , than those she carried with her .  Nay , if we both speak together , how shall we hear one another ? you believe her Vertue is Armour of proof , without your Councell or your Guard ; and therefore you left her in the hands of Rogues and Vagabonds , to make your own Peace with me . You have it . Provided , I say ( as I said before ) that she be safe , that is to say , uncorrupted , undefiled ; that is to say — as I said before .  Nay , if we both speak together , how shall we hear one another ? as I said before . Your intent , and your onely way , you would ha' said , was to run away with her ; and that by her onely Instigation , to avoid the tye of Marriage with Master Talboy ; that is to say , to shun the Match , that I had made for her ; that is to say , rather to disobey me , than to displease her self . Wherein ( altho' she did not altogether transgresse the Law ) she did both offend and prejudice me , an Instrument ; nay , I may say , a Pillar thereof . And you , in assisting her , furthering , and conveying her away , did not onely infringe the  Law , in an unlawfull Departure from your Master , but in a higher point ; that is to say , Top and top-Gallows high . I would ha found a Jury should ha' found it so .  Must we then both speak together ? Have I not born with thee , to speak all thou pleasest in thy defence ? Have I not broke mine own Rule , which is , to punish before I examine ; and so to have the Law the surer o' my side ? And dost thou still persist ? Hold your own peace ; or , as I am a Justice of the Kings , I will unsay what I said before , and set a Currat Lex at you , Sirrah , that shall course you up the heavy Hill . Oh , is your Tongue fallen into your Leg now ? Do not you know I have acquitted you ? Provided — As I said before . Go your way in , and see that the Gentlemen , who , I think , were got in Sack , christned in Sack , nursed with Sack , and fed up to gray haires with onely Sack ; see , I say , that they want no Sack . My Son Oliver ( I thank him ) has brought me a pair of such Guests .  Enter Sentwell .   O Master Sentwell ! Good News ?  That is to say , you have found my Neece among the Beggars . That is to say —  Now if we both speak together , who shall hear one another ?  I can inform my self , Sir , by your looks . I have taken a hundred Examinations i' my daies of Fellons , and other Offendors , out of their very Countenances ; and wrote 'em down verbatim , to  what they would have said . I am sure it has serv'd to hang some of 'em , and whip the rest .  But to the point . You have found my Neece . You have left her at your own House ; not onely to shift her out of her Disguise , but out of her shame , to come neerer me , untill I send her pardon .  Again ! Do not I know the Company ? Beggars , Rogues , Vagabonds , and Hedge-birds .  A needlesse knowledge . Why should we take more than her self ? Or how could you take those that could escape ?  Tell 'em then , I 'll wait on 'em presently .  A Hedge Priest have you taken , say you ?  Who led him into that doubt ? I , or you that brought him hither ?  You reason fairly . Tell him I come .  Nay , if we both talk together —  But are there Players among the apprehended ?  Players ! I 'll pay them above all the rest .  Yes , I 'll put 'em in Stocks , and set 'em up to the Whipping-post . They can act Iustices , can they ? I 'll act a Iustice among 'em ; that is to say , I will  do justice upon them ; that is to say —  But you know my way of Iustice ( and that 's a sure way ) is to punish 'em first , and be compassionate afterwards , as I finde 'em upon their Examination .  And perhaps save me the expence of a Renlet of Sack the while . Well , Sir , for that Respect , and upon your undertaking that they shall please , I will prorogue my Iustice on the Rogues . And so to my merry Gentlemen , whom I will prepare to see their Enterlude against after Supper . But pray , Master Sentwell , as you have found my Neece , look to her , and see her decently brought home .  I will do so , untill my scarce welcome Guests be gone .  Good friend , I will now satisfie your Master , without telling him he has a sawcy Knave to his Man .  Exit Clack .   A hay Boys , a hay . This is right ; that is to say , as I would have it ; that is to say —  A hay Boyes , a hay . They are as merry without , as we were within . A hay , Master Oldrents , and Master Hearty ! The vertue of your Company turns all to Mirth and Melody , with a hay trololly lolly lolly . Is 't not so , Master Hearty ?  Again , Boyes , again ; that is to say , a hay Boyes , ah hay —  You take the losse of your Mistris merrily , Master Talboy .  Can I be sad to finde her , think you ?  You are deceiv'd , Master Talboy ; you are wide , Master Talboy ; above half your length , Master Talboy . Law and Justice shall sleep , and Mirth and good Fellowship ride a Circuit here to night . A hay , Master Oldrents , a hay Master Hearty , and a hay Son Oliver , and a hay Nephew Talboy , that should ha' been , and a hay , my Cleark Martin , and a hay for  the Players . When come they ? Son Oliver , see for Master Sentwell , that is no readier with his new Company .  That is to say , by Vagabonds ; that is to say , by strowling Players . They are upon their Purgation . If they can present any thing to please you , they may escape the Law ; that is ( a hay ) If not , to morrow , Gentlemen , shall be acted , Abuses stript and whipt , among 'em ; with a hay , Master Hearty , you are not merry .  Enter Sentwell .  And a hay Master Sentwell , where are your Drammatis Personae ; your Prologus , and your Actus Primus , ha ? Ha' they given you the slip , for fear of the Whip ? A hay .  Send 'em in , Master Sentwell .  Exit Sent.   Sit Gentlemen , the Players are ready to enter . And here 's a Bill of their Playes . You may take your choice .  A hay then for that too . Some merry device sure .  A Flourish of Shalms .  Heark ! the Beggars Hoboys . Now they begin .  They are best to please you with this tho' , or a hay with a Whip for them to morrow .  Iustice , ha ! Are you medling with Iustices already ?  How like you it , Sir ? You seem displeas'd . Shall they be whipt yet ? A hay , if you say the word .  Ha! Iustice ? Are they handling of Iustice ?  Are they jeering of Iustices ? I watch'd for that .  What , with a Speech by one of the Players ?  Speak , Sir : and be not daunted . I am favourable .  Sure you are out o' your part . That is to say , you must begin again .  You will not tell me that . Are not you my Neece ?  Nay , if we both speak together , how shall we hear one another ?  Nay , if we all speak — as I said before .  Now I do hear you . And I must hear you . That is to say , it is a Match . That is to say — as I said before .  And now , Cleark Martin , give all the Beggars my free Passe , without all manner of Correction ? that is to say , with a hay get 'em gone . 