 Thus low unto your sacred Majesty  I here devote my self ; and thus I meet  With equal love , th' embraces of these Lords .  I le joyn & grow one body , and one voice  With them , in all may adde unto your Honour ,  And your dear Kingdoms good . But pardon me  My soverain Queen , and I beseech you my Lords ,  To weigh with your known wisdom the great danger  This match may bring unto the Crown and Country .  T is true , the King Osriick as wel in person .  As in his dignity , may be thought fit  To be endow'd with all you seem to yeild him .  But what becomes of all the wholsome Laws ,  Customs , and all the nerves of Government  Your no less prudent than Majestick Father  With power & policy enricht this Land with ;  And made the Saxons happy , and your self  A Queen of so great eminence . Must all ,  With so much Majestie and matchlesse beauty ,  Be now subjected to a strangers foot ;  And trod into disorder ? All your wealth ,  Your state , your laws , your subjects , and the hope  Of flourishing future fortunes , which your Father  By his continual care , and teadious study  Gave as a Legacy unto this Kingdom :  Must all be altered , or quite subverted ,  And all by a wilful gift unto a stranger :  Do you approve their judgments , Madam , which  Are grounded on your will ? I may not do 't .  Only I pray , that you may understand ,  ( But not unto your loss ) the difference  Betwixt smooth flattery , and honest judgements .  Mean time I thank you for your prophesie .  This is ear taking Musick .  I see your aym ;  And know , when I have said all that I dare ,  What censure I must undergoe . And thus  I le meet it boldly : you are sycophants all ,  And doe provide but for your selves , though all .  The Kingdom perish for 't . May the justice  That follows flattery overtake you for 't .  Take hence the mad man .  Your question to no purpose , Sir , was this :  Whom my great wisdom would allot the Queen ?  You are not worth my answer . But my Soveraigne ,  I do implore your gracious attention  To these few words .  I wish your Highnesse would command your women ,  That know their qualities to take up your Beagles .  Their Petulances sort not with this place  Nor the more serious matter of my speech .  The King your Father , and my ne'r to be  Forgotten Master , ( please you to remember . )  Although his memory be lost with these ,  Who nere had grace to know him rightly , gave me  Before his death strictly this charge ; and in  Your presence too , charging your selfe withal  To give it due obedience : That you should  Before all mens advice take mine for marriage ,  And that especially I should take care  'Gainst Innovation . That the laws he left  Establisht with such care for good o th' Kingdome  Might be maintaind by whomsoere you matchd with .  I know , and you , if you knew any thing ,  Might know the difference twixt the Northumbrian lawes  And ours : And sooner will their King pervert  Your Priviledges and your Government ,  Then reduce his to yours : pure common sense ,  Even you me thinks , my Lords , may foretell that   I doe beseech your Highnesse  But for this little more .  Your Father added this to his command ,  That rather then by marriage you should bring  Your Subjects to such thraldome , and that if  No Prince whose lawes coher'd with yours did seek you  ( As some there are , and neerer then th' Northumbrian )  That he would have you from some noble Stock  To take a Subject in your own Dominion .  To urge your Fathers Testament ?  I have not much to say .  In the large History of your Fathers life  You find but one example for this doom  Of Banishment . And that was of Alberte five years since ,  For wronging me unto his Highnesse , when  He stood in competition with me for  The Honor in the State the King then gave me .  But thus . I stood by then , and then all knowing Heaven  Saw that though he for wronging me was Banish'd ,  I was right sorry , and much pleaded for him .  Quite contrary , for they are my Abusers ;  Yet I do grieve for them , but more for you .  To think on all your sorrows , when too late  You 'l wish for me to steer the State .  But to applaud your Mercy and Bounty ,  In that you post me from a world of care  And give me the wide world for my share .  'T is the Queens pleasure children ;  I must bear it .  Whilst we expect the best from Heavens high will ,  It suffers Princes to reward us ill .  Yet can I think it shakes an angry hand  Over my head , for some misdeed of mine ,  Which I have unrepented let go by .  It must be something sure was pleasure to me .  What in the World has most delighted me ?  To love my King and Country , Neighbours , Friends ,  And sometimes Enemies . ( I 'l passe o're that )  I have done well ( though I do not to boast it )  To succour and relieve all kind of wretches ;  Poor souls that have half deafned me with Prayers ,  Loud Prayers . They 'l misse me now ; and I  Shall have a misse of them too . ( Let that passe )  What have I done at home , since my Wife died ?  No Turtle ever kept a widowhood ,  More strict then I have done . Then for my Children ,  I am sure thou 'lt answer in behalf or one .  Have I not lov'd thee alwayes ?  I , thou wast ever an obedient child ,  Next , you my Daughter .  How have you found my love ?  Do not weep , but speak good child .  I have not long to stay with yee ; my three dayes  Will scarce afford this hour to bide with you .  'T is a good maid ; O Queen thou art too cruel !  What 's that my Girle ?  For this thou shalt not trouble her : besides  You put me well in mind to charge you Daughter ,  Upon my Blessing , go no more to Court .  Shun it I charge thee as thou wouldst my curse .  If you have lovers there whom they call Servants ,  Do as neat Surgeons do when they have touch'd  Loathsome or pestilent Sores ; wash clean your hands  Of all of 'em , that are far more infectious .  And hear me daughter Mildred , I am told  The Northumbrian Embassador now at Court ,  The great Kings greater Favourite made hot love to you .  And that he obtained your Picture which he wears ,  More proud of 't then his undeserved Honours .  Let me now charge you further , and observe it ,  Shake off all thoughts of him . Upon the match now  He and whole Sholes of upstart Braveries ,  Must hither needs attend their King . But if  Thou marry with him , or any amongst them ,  Though the greatest subject that his Master has ,  Thou art divorcd for ever of my blessing .  Enough . Anthynus .  Now there rests  Of all my children but you to resolve me ,  How you have found my love ?  Yet you seem  Anthinus , by your leave , the least to know me ,  But like a stranger look upon me when  These give me due respect .  Yet you speak in this but coldly .  No more ,  Time calls away apace , and I am satisfied  Since I must undergo the Queens hard censure ,  That it falls not upon me like a curse ,  For wronging Crown or Country , Neighbours , Friends ,  Or you my dearer children . I will take it  Not as a punishment but blessing rather .  To be remov'd from miseries  Are like to fall on this unhappy Kingdom .  And I will think the Queen has done me favour  To ease me of my cares a thousand wayes ,  To make my rest of life all holidayes .  Now take my last directions . Son Anthynus .  Though you are eldest , and my lawful heir ,  And must be Lord at my decease of all  My large Possessions . Yet it is my will  That till my death my Offa have the sway  And government of all , allowing you  That yearly stipend formerly I gave you .  Let me not hear of any grudge betwixt you .  And be you both respectful of your Sister ,  And you of them good Girle . It is decreed  That I shall never see you more .  Go get thee in I prithe Mildred ,  Go in I say , thy brothers shall a little  Shew me my way . Go in , I shall not speak else ,  And I have more to say to them . Good now go .  You will not disobey me ? Heaven blesse my Girle ( go and come again )  Yes child in Heaven ; and then for evermore .  Thither shall be my first journey .  But after you shall still hear from me where e're I wander .  Why I pray ?  This is but your stoutness  ( Though you seem humble unto me ) against  Your brother , because I leave the rule to him .  You shall along .  Peace , I know thy fear my dearest Boy .  I 'l give my self to Heaven , quit thou thy fear .  I am not worth a life . I 'l take him hence  That thou mayst be secure from bloody spite .  I fear him not , mischief has spent her selfe  And left her sting within me for a charme  That quit me from the fear of further harm .  Go get thee home , my blessing and farewell .  And farwel Countrey , shed not a tear for me ;  I go to be dissolv'd in tears for thee .  'T Was a miraculous escape . Good Heaven  Is with me still . I have not heard  That any of these native Salvages ,  These home-bred monsters in humanity ,  These out-laws , these detested Thieves and Robbers ,  Have enterpriz'd a villany like this ,  To set with such a violence on men  Of our weak seeming , poor and needy Pilgrims ,  When I did offer them to shun their blows ,  All that we had even to our bare apparel   Was it not enough  Thou impious Queen , and more unnatural unnatural ,  To banish me unjustly ? but thou must  Pursue my life by treacherous cruelty ?  Art thou not hurt at all my Son ?  They are three sturdy Knaves and strongly weapon'd .  It was and is my purpose to appear  In person to that King at my lifes price ,  Which I am no more fond of then my Country  Is of my truth . And when I have made known  Th' unfitness of the match , by the dishonour  He 'l run into if he proceed in it ;  If then he take my life , I am at home ,  Eternally at home .  None  But my dear son Offa .  Good Angels guard us ;  They have made head again in greater numbers .  Even almost well I hope .  Offa , oh son Offa !  O son Offa !  O Anthynus !  Help me to rise .  O I am weak .  No , not this sword .  Oh set me down .  Patience good Son .  Good Son , be not impatient .  Indeed ,  Son , this impatience hurts thy self and me .  Better let me bleed still ( bleeding 's an easie death )  Then thou displease the awful power of Heaven ,  By chiding at the feign'd ones , good take heed .  Good Son , forbear 't , and me unto my thoughts ,  Till thou returnst . Heavens & my blessing with thee .  This sword Anthynus ? no , shouldst thou but know  This sword as I do , it would raise thy Fury  Unto an execution of that horror  Would shake me in my grave : this sword  Which now I cannot but with tears remember ,  Was once mine own . I gave it to thy Brother ,  ( I will not call him so ) but to my Son ,  ( Why should I call him so ? ) but to Offa ,  And so I fear I name my murtherer .  For when I gave it him , I charg'd him never  To part with it ; he firmly vow'd the same ,  And that whilst I or he should live , no man  Should ever give it motion but himself .  Wer't thou so greedy of my life , my Offa ,  To snatch it from me thus ? when as the wounds  Thy Parricidial hands has given me ,  Are not so bitter as the wronged thoughts ,  Though they are deep and overflow their brinks ;  I have two wounds within me that are deeper ,  Which have discover'd in my heart and bowels  A trebbled Spring of deerer blood then this .  One pricks me with compassion for thee ,  My good , my charitable , pious Son .  All blessing due to sanctimonious vertue  Be ever thy companion , till thou art crown'd  Mongst Sons of men the pattern of true Piety .  What foul mistrusts ? puddles of jealousie  Were lodg'd in this dark bosome against thee ?  And of affection what a pure stream did run  By a false Current to my second Son ?  Who by thy truth appears not now thine own .  Which makes my other wound , in that so long  I cherish'd him by doing of thee wrong .  Now from my heart issue two streams of blood ,  One thick and clotty , th' other clean Vermillion .  In the grosse blood I vent the wrong conceit  I swallow'd against thee my good Anthynus .  And in the cleer I see Offa's falshood may  In both my blood runs forth apace . O  My thick blood Anthynu be forgiven by thee .  And the clear cleanse my Offa's treachery  Oh —  My Son Anthynus living ?  My blessing on my Girle .  If this were real now , and not a Dream !  I have perform'd your Majesties command ,  Though not in sending , yet in bringing home  My banish'd friend , Lord Alberto , the preserver  Of my now happy life .  All the unhappiness I now can see  Is but an argument of tears for thee ,  In whom I 'm justly punish'd .  And pray let care  Be had for his recovery ; his senses may  Bring a new soul into him , for which I pray .  This sword was evidence enough against him ;  But here 's one of the Outlaws that confess'd it ;  For whom , since he is penitent , I beg pardon . 