 To Banishment , good heaven forbid . And Heaven  I hope will not yet suffer it .  Come you hither .  My Lord Father .  O dear Sir ,  I am all unworthy to acknowledge half ,  Half of your pious bounties on a Son ,  A wretch so ill deserving as my self ;  Your hand has evermore been open to me ,  Your ' blessings still more readily have showr'd  Upon my head , then I had grace to ask them .  ( For to my knowledge I ne're ask'd blessing yet  With a good will in all my life ; some would  Do Pennance in the Church with lesse perplexity . )  I shall look to that Sir .  Umh .  No , no , it sounds not well . But you are wise .  If this were hearty now , not hollow .  Do you not find him ?  Heaven knows his thoughts the while alack a day .  Sir .  Does not your blood begin to chil within you ?  Great heirs are overhasty Sir ,  And think their Fathers live too long . Pray Sir  Take heed of him . Though he should act the  Parricide abroad , our laws acquit him .  Pray Sir excuse me , I cannot speak for laughing .  Faint hearted slaves  Must I give hire and do the talk my self ?  YOu are sure they both are dead ?  That was well ; but are they dead indeed ?  But he 's dead to y' are sure ?  They are both dead you say ?  Stay ; let me think .  My conscience tells me 't was a bloody businesse , and that  To pay the price of their dear blood were to  Augment my sin .  Nay here 's your money Gentlemen , but you must stoop for 't :  I dare not look upon the giving of it .  Ha , ha , ha . You have made my conscience whole  Again with laughing . Why took ye not your money with ye to  Drink among the Furies ? Ha , ha , ha . D' ye hear my friends ?  Pray stay , take your money ; are you so  Quickly out of hearing ? What shallow Rogues were  These till now ? now they are deep enough , men of  Profound understanding ; this Gimcrach I devis'd for  Their entertainment ; where you shall fast and welcome  Gentlemen , till you have tried the conclusion , whether Famine  Can break stone walls ; I am sure they are thick enough  To drown your cries , though they be lowder then the  Voice of vengeance . So ends their Scene . Some conscience now  Would ask me , why hast thou  Dispatch'd thy Father and thy Brother thus ?  But mine informs me , I did very well .  Your reason Sir , replies the scrupulous conscience ?  Mine roundly answers that my brother was  Elder then I , and by right to inherit  My Fathers fair possessions , of which  I have so sweetly tasted . But your Father  By a most dear and supernatural love  Gave you the greater blessing ; & in time  Might have conferr'd all on you by your policy .  To this again I answer , that my Father ,  Whose dotage meerly & not my deserts  Made him so good to me , might in my absence  Have idly grown as fond on tother side .  For to speak truth , and not to wrong the dead ,  My brother was religious , pious , honest ,  And was endued with all these unknown gifts  Which holy men call vertues ; which in the end  If they be suffer'd to run on will find  Double reward , they say . His could not be  Found here , but in my losse , and by my Father .  Now if they may be had i th' tother world ,  I am so far from being their hinderance ,  That I have sent them both the nighest way .  Many good reasons more I could deliver ,  But that I am prevented .  Go prate among the servants .  Y'have heard the news , and mourn for 't I perceive ,  Of the unfortunate ends of our dear Father ,  And our beloved brother .  Troth I was  Sunk over head and ears ; but am wept out  Of sorrows lake e'en dropping dry , as they say ;  And have done what I can to shake it off .  And would now counsel thee , my beauteous Sister ,  To cleer those looks again , that only can  Revive my drooping heart , we only are  Left now to be each others comforter .  I have made known my love to you .  Peace , hear but this ,  D' you think it is not love ? would I desire  You in that neerest kind , if I not lov'd you ?  Sure I do hope so , and that you shall find it .  Peace again .  You shall not rob  Me so of my revenge , if you deny me .  And 't is another argument of my love ,  If 't please you to collect it , that you have liv'd  Till now , still obstinate . But be you warn'd  And take withal to your consideration  Your provident Father , and your valiant Brother ,  ( Whom you so priz'd above me ) are not now  To oversee or side you .  Therefore take  This for your latest warning ;  This night to meet me in my full desires ,  In your as free embraces , or pale death .  Go clear your eyes , and think on 't ; but be sure  You think to do withal as I command you .  I 'l pitch thee headlong into Hell else . Come ,  I know thou wilt affect me ; can there be  A neerer or more requisite love indeed  Then the sweet mixture of a Brother and Sister ?  Well said , there was a blushing smile , that gave me  Thy full consent ; O thou wilt ravish me .  Prithe do .  What saies my Sister now ?  I marry , this begins well .  This has some sound in 't .  Stay my lovely Mildred ;  What ? or whose eye , or thought , shall glance at us ?  Whilst we in safest privacy enjoy  The blisse of mutual pleasure .  A week ; what pledge ?  You could not name a better ,  Short of the further happinesse I covet .  Give me 't .  By this kisse I swear .  Well , well , I 'l do my best .  Go , th' art a noble wench , enjoy thy liberty .  Yet I fear ,  I shall hardly hold out a week ;  'T is a great while believe 't in such a case  As this , for one to forbear his own Sister ,  That has so good a mind to 't . And perhaps  This may be cunning in her to delude me .  Were not I better take her by surprise ,  In a soft sleep to night ? sure I shall keep her  From killing of her self , till I be satisfied .  And then if she be weary of her life ,  I may be kind enough to help her out on 't ;  Because she sayes she loves me . Out you Beldame ,  How in the name of Lucifer cam'st thou hither ?  To eavesdrop have you not ? I am not safe ,  Unlesse I kill this Witch .  Pox upon your secret .  Hell take your privity .  Will you be brief then ?  And what of that ?  So they say forsooth .  I fear this jade  Has overheard me .  What 's that to me ?  You began there before , if that be the beginning ,  Your for ever world without end  We shall never come at it .  Do I but think so ?  Is Mildred dead ? has she destroy'd herself ?  Now since she left me here , to spight my love .  Unfold your riddle Sphinx , I 'l dig it else  Out of your rotten belly . What 's your meaning ?  How ? not my Sister ?  Because she is unnatural ; didst thou but know  What a poor easie request she deny'd me  Thou wouldst say she were unnatural indeed .  Speak that again ; make but that good , I 'l Saint thee .  I , quickly to the point .  Then she is nobly born ?  Canst thou prove this ?  Do so ; and dost hear ?  I 'l never call old woman witch hereafter  What e're I think . We may be married now ,  And Mildreds love may freely answer mine .  We now may safely mix , and to 't again ,  Strange strong events are labouring in my brain .  Come you with me .  Your cries will be in vain .  'T is not in the power of any flesh but yours ,  To allay , or to prevent my heat of blood .  Thy cries shall be as fruitless as thy life  If thou offend'st me with 'em ; hear but this  Impertinently peevish maid , and tremble  But to conceive a disobedient thought  Against my will . Canst thou without my favour ,  Be better then a begger ?  How canst thou judge  That knowst not what is either ? let a wench  That knows what 's what , or has been both , maintain it ;  But this is from the purpose ; I am so far  From casting of thee off to be a begger ,  As I intend to make thee my rich equal ,  And not a Whore , but wife ; you know your Nurse  Has undertaken to find it lawful for us  To marry ; and canst thou with modesty  Deny me present pleasure , that within these three dayes  Shall confer honour on thee for thy life ?  'T is mine when I contract for 't .  By this account ,  A man backs not his Horse before he 's paid for 't ;  Nor puts his nose into a house before  He buyes the Lease on 't ; leave your precise folly ,  Madam formality ; force me not to force thee ,  Yield with that very breath thou now drawest in ,  Or it returns thy last .  This Witch or Divel haunts me .  What with a mischief ?  Out Hag .  What canst thou mean by this ?  Go you to your Chamber ,  And be not seen I charge you . Let him enter ,  But first send in my servants .  I did mistrust he liv'd ; O those false Villains ,  That fac'd me down they kill'd him , may they be  A year a famishing . Have you tricks Anthynus ?  How can he thinke , though he disguis'd his name  Or Countrey , that we should not know his person ?  What should his aim or drift be ? stay , perhaps  He does suspect I was in the action  Against my fathers life and his , & thinks him dead ,  So steals upon me thus as his own ghost ,  To terrifie my conscience , shallow , shallow ;  But I 'l so fit him ; It is most evidently he .  From one so false never came clearer truth .  It is true , my honour  Cannot , nay , dares not know thee for a Brother ,  Although mine eyes through tears of grief and anger ,  Discern the monster I have often call'd so .  Look that he come not near me ;  Perfidious Parricide , hast thou kill'd my Father ?  Destroy'd the life that gave thee life ? and now  Seek'st by surprize to take mine too ?  Upon him all at once , hew him in pieces ;  I 'l bear you out in 't ; he has kill'd your Lord .  Villains , are they to be obey'd or I ?  Are you  Become my master , you old Ruffian ?  Away with 'em .  Exeunt .   I could have lik'd the other shorter way  Much better ; but my knaves will have it thus ,  Yet not to wrong 'em , simple honesty  May be in such sometimes as well as me .  If my attempt now fail , may my repulse  Strike lust for ever out of countenance .  Ent. Offa , light and Dagger .   It is decreed she sleeps with me or death   The night , the place , her fate , and my desire ,  Do all conspire unto my wish'd advantage .  And so I come coy Damosel .  Hide the women under their habits , and so Exeunt all but Offa.    Ha ? how ? why ? where ? who ? or what can you or I be ?  They are all gone , and I am tottering left  Upon an Earthquake ; gentle , holla , holla ,  Set not too hard old Ops , thou 'lt shake thy rider ,  Through thy chinky wrinkles into Limbo .  I shall sinke piecemeal if thou trot so hard .  So , so , so , Holla , holla , gentle earth .  Open not here , not near that part of thee  That has but now disgorg'd those famish'd ghosts ,  That with the Furies would have beckned me  Along to hell with 'em ; so , let me down ,  I must not follow yet , but sleep and think upon 't .  I will come time enough you need not fear .  But first creep back to bed , as nothing were .  Whither do you hurry me ?  If I must answer 't , give me yet some time ,  To make provision of befitting Presents ,  To supply the hard hands of my stern Judges ,  Into a tender feeling of my cause :  I know what Eacus loves , what Mines likes ,  And what will make grave Radamanthus run .  Hark , how the Divel lies ;  I have no Sister .  What am I freed ?  I knew my bribes would do it . 