 Happier then we I 'm sure , that are pent up and tied by the nose to the continual steam of hot Hospitality , here in our Father's house , when they have the Aire at pleasure in all variety .  Yes in our Father's Rule and Government , or by his allowance . What 's that to absolute freedom ; such as the very Beggars have ; to feast and revel here to day , and yonder to morrow ; next day where they please ; and so on still , the whole Country or Kingdome over ? ther 's Liberty ! the birds of the aire can take no more .  Now he never looks upon us , but with a sigh , or teares in his eyes , tho' we simper never so sanctifiedly . What tales have been told him of us , or what he suspects I know not ; God forgive him , I do ; but I am weary of his house .  Which is that one of us I pray ? your selfe or me ?  I am beholden to you . But for my Father , I would I knew his grief and how to cure him , or that we were where we could not see it . It spoiles our mirth , and that has been better then his Meat to us .  Psew , you would marry us presently out of his way , because he has given you a foolish kinde of promise : But we will see him in a better humor first , and as apt to laugh as we to lie down , I warrant him .  I will rather hazard my being one of the Devil's  Ape-leaders , then to marry while he is melancholly .  'T is not to be indur'd . We must out of the House . We cannot live but by laughing , and that aloud , and no body sad within hearing .  No , that will be too publique for our Recreation . We would have it more within our selves .  Ha ha ha — Heark agen Rachel .  And you will stand to 't ?  Pray tell 't'em , sister Rachel .  You are the elder . Pray tell it you .  Introth you must tell it , sister , I cannot . Pray begin .  And have ingag'd your selves to join with us in any course .  It is our Resolution , and our Injunction on you .  And for a spring-trick of youth , now , in the season .  Let yours be to keep councel .  Not so , not so ,  Couchant and Passant , Guardant , Rampant Beggars .  The onely Freemen of a Common-wealth ;  Free above Scot-free ; that observe no Law ,  Obey no Governour , use no Religion ,  But what they draw from their own ancient custom ,  Or constitute themselves , yet are no Rebels .  The Antidote , Content , is onely theirs .  And , unto that , such full delights are known ,  That they conceive the Kingdom is their own .  I am glad on 't . Let 'em pump .  They are more zealous in the Cause then we .  What wouldst thou have us do ?  Thou talk'st o'th' House .  'T is a base melancholly House .  Our Father's sadness banishes us out on 't .  And , for the delight thou tak'st in Beggars and their  brawls , thou canst not but think they live a better  life abroad , then we do in this House .  I am sorely surbated with hoofing already tho' , and so crupper-crampt with our hard lodging , and so bumfidled with the straw , that —  Or do's your Provender prick you ?  There was a brown Crust amongst it , that has made my neck so white me thinks . Is it not Rachel ?  Be therefore pleas'd , right noble Sir , not onely valuing us by our outward Habits , which cannot but appear loathsom or despicable unto you , but as we are forlorn Christians ; and , in that estimation , be compassionately moved to cast a handful or two of your Silver , or a few of your Golden Pieces  unto us , to furnish us with Linen , and some decent Habilliments —  And that as you can wish our Virgine Prayers to be propitious for you .  Nay , that the fairest may be ambitious to place their favours on you .  And that , when you please to take a wife , may Honour , Beauty , and Wealth , contend to endow her most with .  A faire and fortunate Posterity .  We were born to no better Fortune .  And to be ambitious above the vulgar , to  aske more then common Alms , what ere men please to give us .  Is it not a straw colour'd one , Sir ?  Then pray Sir your Benevolence .  Beggars and all Sir ?  You shall not pull us so .  Besides fair offers and large promises . What ha' you got to day , Gentlemen ?  As we did last night .  Lead on , brave Generall .  to Spr.    I that will be fine ; let 's charm all together .  No Bands or Shirts but lowsie on our backs .  Concerning , Springlove and your self , Mistris Amie .  From poore Us .  He has taken some great distaste sure : For he is damnable jealous .  Yes , and then Springlove , to make him madder , told him , that he would be his Proxie , and marry her for him , and lie with her the first night , with a naked Cudgell betwixt 'em , and make him a King of Beggars .  How cautious the old contracted Couple were for Portion and joincture !  O but Poet Scribble's Epithalamium .   To the blinde Virgin of fourscore ,   And the lame Batchelor , of more ,    How Cupid gave her Fyes to see ,   And Vulcan lent him Legs :   How Venus caus'd their Sport to be   Prepar'd with butter'd Egs .   Yet when she shall be seven yeers wed ,   She shall be bold to say ,   She has as much her Maiden-head ,   As on her Wedding day .    To the blinde Virgin of fourscore ,  And the lame Batchelor , of more ,  How Cupid gave her Fyes to see ,  And Vulcan lent him Legs :  How Venus caus'd their Sport to be  Prepar'd with butter'd Egs .  Yet when she shall be seven yeers wed ,  She shall be bold to say ,  She has as much her Maiden-head ,  As on her Wedding day .  Of ours you should say .  We are no lesse , I assure you . We finde the Sweetnesse of it now .  Some few , upon necessity , perhaps . But that 's not worth g'rammercy .  Or that our Father will turn us out to it again ?  And we must have a Progresse .  For which we were fain to go a begging , Sir .  For twelve pence a piece , Sir . 