 Am I then taken prisoner in the North ?  Wounded , disarm'd and bound ? I shall be ransom'd  To which of your rebelliously usurp'd  Castles ha' you brought me ? you sir Presbiter ,  That better can pugnare then orare ,  And so abjure all duty and allegiance —  You were best to use me well ; and like a souldier  Order will else be tane ( though you know none . )  And use my horse well too , and let my horse and armor  Be decently preserv'd and seene forth-comming  At my redemption .  For I shall soone be sent for , or fetch'd off  With ruine of your countrey 'bout your eares .  I shall have Oat-bread , Ale , and Bag-pipes , shall I ?  Merry ! why not ? come let 's ha' cards ; and you and I to cribbidge  For an od hundred pound , I meane not Scotch ,  But sterling English pieces , where 's your money ?  All gone in Ammunition , and charge Military .  O here 's a third man , let 's then to Gleeke .  Crown Gleeke ! no more ?  You seeme to be a thrifty Covenanter  To play but at crowne Gleeke , whole piece Gleeke or nothing .  Sir , you must bare mee Aces . You will play Tib and Tom .  Away with cards . Bring dice , set all at hazard ,  And though I lose all , I have yet a project  That at the end o' th' war , and the great sitting  Shall fetch all in agen . But O my Muse !  How dare I so neglect thy inspirations ?  Give me Pen , Inke and Paper .  Now will I write , nor will I emulate  Ovids smoth vaine , or Petraks buskind stile .  Nor Laura , nor Corinna did deserve  To have their prayers written in such Verse  As I 'le bestow on her that I adore .  Listen to me you blest Intelligences ,  And , Phebus , stay thy course to heare me sing  Her prayses , for whose love th' inamor'd Gods  Would leave their proper seates , and in stolne shapes ,  Converse with mortalls , your soule-ravishing spheres  Send forth your sweetest harmony whilst I sing —  But O shee is disdainfull ; and her scorne  Hath blotted all the glory of her praise ,  Away , away with all .  Disease ! what 's that ? who is diseas'd ? who wants a Remedy ?  Are you sir a Phisitian ?  You are a brace of Quacks ,  That tie your knowledge unto dayes and houres  Mark'd out for good or ill i' th' Almanack .  Your best Receipts are candy for a cold ;  And Carduus Benedictus for an ague ,  Could you give life as Aesculapius  Did to unjustly slaine Hippolitus ,  You could prescribe no remedy for me .  Goe study Gallen , and Hippocrates ,  And when your rare simplicities have found  Simples to cure the Lunacy of Love ,  Compose a potion , and administer't  Unto the Family at Amsterdam .  Who 's that ?  What hither , unto hell ? Extend their loves  So far , to finde me out ? Pray let 'em know  That here 's a trobled world in want of Statesmen .  But tell the youthes and beauties there , they never  Shall finde a happier opportunity  To raise a new Plantation . They 'l drive all  Before 'em here . For pride is at a stand ;  Fashions are all worne out , and no invention  For new here to be found : all beauty 's lost ;  Nor have the greatest Ladies here the act  To make so much as their poore Chambermayds :  Let 'em come downe , as many of the Gallants  As are made weary of their Wives or Mistresses ;  And , of those Wives and Mistresses , as many  As can their husbands , or their servants spare :  And what a yeare of Holy-dayes , a Jubile  Shall we have in hell then ? Ha' old Lad !  But above all , finde out the Lady Strangelove  That humorous Madam , and tell her from me ,  The many Lovers shee has sent before her  Into these shades ( where we can find no torments  Like those that shee inflicted ) have prevail'd  With the great Queene Proserpina , that shee  Shall be in place next to her royall person .  Pray sir your eare .  What do you thinke of Salsbury steeple sir ,  For a fit hunting speare t' incounter with  The whore of Babilion ? might I not firke her thinke you ?  Is Oratour Demostines growne dumbe  O' th' sodaine ? what ! no answer ? give me a Knife  He is but tongue-tied .  Patience in tortures ?  Do you sally forth in troupes ? Have I no troupe ?  Give me my horse and armes , and come a hundred .  O doe you make me then your Knight o' th' shire A tun o' Wine for that . Shoulder your Knight , advance your Knight , beare him out .  Manent Men .   Away Medusa . Hence , thou hast transformd me . Stone , stone , I am all stone . Bring morter and make a bul-wark of me .  Above unseen    Hold me not down .  Hold me not down , but reare me up , and make me my own statue .  Let 's have a mad catch then .  Are not your wind pipes tun'd yet ? Sing  A Catch .  So now a Dance , I am all ayre — Ahaigh — Ahaigh  I thanke thee Mercury that hast lent thy wings  Unto my feete . Play me my Countrey Dance ,  Stand all you by . These Lasses and these Swaines  Are for my Company .  How now ! all vanish'd , ha !  It is no mervaile that the lesser lights  Become obscur'd when Cynthia appeares ,  Let me with Adoration fall before  Thy Deity great Goddesse .  What Hydras , Gorgons , and Chymaeras are you ;  Centaures and Harpies that dare interpose  Between my hopes , and my felicity !  Was Night made to surprise men at Noon-day ?  Or shall the charmes of Heccate take force  To dimne Appolle's brightnesse ? So 't must be ,  When Gods themselves give way to Destine .  Exiunt with Ferd.    HEape yet more Mountaines , Mountaines upon  Mountaines , Pindus on Ossa , Atlas on Olympus ,  I 'le carry that which carries Heaven , do you  But lay 't upon me !  The danger then be mine . Let him sit up . Is not he civill now ?  Ha —  Ho! Murder , Murder , Murder .  The Battaile of Musleborough Field was a brave one .  Not know my Soveraigne Lord ? Curs'd be those Knees , and hearts that fall not prostrate at his Feete .  Who talkes this mortall to ? I am a spirit .  I would but live to subdue the Pisidians ,  And so to bring the Lydians under tribute —  Pish .  Run back .   O ho , ho , ho , —  Hold Frederick hold . Thou hast indeed awak'd  Me to see thee and my selfe .  Yet hold . Has Mendicant beg'd me ?  Put up thy Sword .  Not to obtaine Charissa ?  It shall be by meanes if gold can win  Her Fathers grant .  Not that I dare not fight , doe I urge this ,  But that the other is your safer way .  I neither will nor dare fight in this cause .  Keepe my councell ,  And take Charissa .  First , for the wrong I did thee , noble youth  In my designe against Charissa's honour ,  It is confess'd , repented ; and her selfe  For satisfaction to be given to thee ,  I 'le fall upon thy Sword else , or be posted ,  And Ballated with all disgrace .  And for my shew of madnesse ; 't was put on  For my revenge on this impetuous Lady  To coole these flames ( as much of anger as  Desire ) with her disdaine , and tempting malice  Had rais'd within mee .  I rather thought , she like a cunning Lady  VVould have consented to a Madman , who  She might presume could not impeach her honor  By least detection . Monkeyes , Fooles , and Madmen ,  That cannot blab , or must not be believ'd  Receave strange favours .  True .  Suppose so .  Frederick —  Madam most readily , I have offer'd it .  I 'le be directed by you .  It is , and sir in testimony of my recovery , I make demand of my estate : of which you thought your selfe possest .  Nor thinke your Daughter undervalued sir ,  Three thousand pound I give him to augment  Her fortune in him .  All reall truth sir , whither flie you from us ?  You mistake strangely .  Florish .   That come to celebrate your joyes , which wilfully  You will not apprehend .  Come hither Cupid .  What black Tragedian's this ?  Hee 's mad ; is he ?  An excellent Morrall ! The Projects are all cancel'd , and the Projectors turnd out o' dores .  You have my protestation : and in that ,  Madam , my faith before these noble friends .  I 'm at the Cavaliers . Heroick spirits ,  That know both to reward , and atchieve merits ,  Do , like the Sun-beames , vertuously dispense  Upon the lowest growths their influence ,  As well as on the lofty : our Poet so  By your Phebean favours hopes to grow . 