 IT has indeed , Friend , much afflicted me .  I have since been frighted  With 't in a thousand dreams .  And that was happy , would mine could so deceive my fears .  Would I had your merry heart .  I mean the like .  T is their goodness .  Enough .  Good Friend , no more .  Come , I will strive to think no more on 't .  Your counsel and example may instruct me .  Yet here comes one brings me a second fear ,  Who has my care the next unto my children .  I 'll soon dispatch it :  And then be for our journey instantly .  But why , Springlove ,  Is now this expedition ?  Not common among Stewards , I confess ,  To urge in their Accompts before the day  Their Lords have limited . Some that are grown  To hoary haires and Knighthoods , are not found  Guilty of such an importunity .  'T is yet but thirty daies , when I give forty  After the half-year day , our Lady last .  Could I suspect my Trust were lost in thee ;  Or doubt thy youth had not ability  To carry out the weight of such a charge ,  I , then , should call on thee .  Thy charity there goes hand in hand with mine .  And , Springlove , I commend it in thee , that  So young in years art grown so ripe in goodness .  May their Heaven-piercing Prayers bring on thee  Equall rewards with me .  Twelve thousand and odd pounds .  Why in my Closet ? is not yours as safe ?  Your suit ? what suit ?  'T is well-nigh May .  Why what of that , good Springlove ?  Nightingale sings .   Fie Springlove , fie .  I hop'd thou hadst abjur'd that uncough practice .  Is that disease of Nature still in thee  So virulent ? and , notwithstanding all  My favours , in my gifts , my cares , and counsels ,  Which to a soul ingrateful might be boasted :  Have I first bred thee , and then preferr'd thee ( from  I will not say how wretched a beginning )  To be a Master over all my Servants ;  Planted thee in my bosom ; and canst thou ,  There , siight me for the whistling of a Bird ?  I finde there 's no expelling it ; but still  It will return . I have try'd all the means  ( As I may safely think ) in humane wisdom ,  And did ( as neer as reason could ) assure me ,  That thy last years restraint had stopp'd for ever ,  That running sore on thee , that gadding humour :  When , onely for that cause , I laid the weight  Of mine Estate in Stewardship upon thee ;  Which kept thee in that year , after so many  Sommer vagaries thou hadst made before .  Can there no means be found to preserve life  In thee , but wandring , like a Vagabond ?  Does not the Sun as comfortably shine  Upon my Gardens , as the opener Fields ?  Or on my Fields , as others far remote ?  Are not my Walks and Greens as delectable  As the High-ways and Commons ? Are the shades  Of Siccamore and Bowers of Eglantine  Less pleasing then of Bramble , or thorne hedges ?  Or of my Groves and Thickets , then wild Woods ?  Are not my Fountain waters fresher then  The troubled streams , where every Beast does drink ?  Do not the Birds sing here as sweet and lively ,  As any other where ? is not thy bed more soft ,  And rest more safe , then in a Field or Barn ?  Is a full Table , which is call'd thine own ,  Less curious or wholsom , then the seraps  From others trenchers , twice or thrice translated ?  What air is wanting ?  For Pennance ; or to holy ends ? but bring Not those into comparison , I charge you .  Are there delights in beggary ? Or , if to take  Diversity of Aire be such a solace ,  Travel the Kingdom over : And if this  Yeeld not variety enough , try further :  Provided your deportment be gentile .  Take Horse , and Man , and Money : you have all ,  Or I 'll allow enough .  I will no longer strive to wash this Moor ;  Nor breath more minutes so unthriftily ,  In civil argument , against rude winde ,  But rather practise to withdraw my love  And tender care ( if it be possible )  From that unfruitful breast ; incapable  Of wholsome counsel .  I leave you to dispute it with your self .  I have no voice to bid you go , or stay :  My love shall give thy will preheminence ;  And leave th' effect to Time and Providence —  Exit .   I strive you see to be so . Yet somthing pricks me within , me thinks .  I think not of 'em . Nor will I presage ,  That when a disposition of sadness  O'rclouds my spirits , I shall therefore hear  Ill news , or shortly meet with some disaster .  Forc'd Mirth tho' is not good .  You argue well . But do you see yon'd Fellow ?  Something troubles him .  Can he force Mirth out of himself now , think you ?  He looks , as he came laden with ill news ,  To meet me on my way .  Why how now Randal ! sad ? where 's Springlove ?  I know his measuring of Land . He is gone his old way .  And let him go . Am not I merry Hearty ?  The Poor's charge shall be mine . Keep you the Money for him .  Ha ha ha .  Go then , and give it to one of my Daughters to keep for Springlove .  Alass poor knave ! How hard a tasque it is to alter Custome !  All were not born for weighty Offices .  Which makes me think of Springlove .  He might have tane his leave tho' .  You are deceiv'd in him .  Well Sir . I will be merry . I am resolv'd  To force my Spirit onely unto Mirth .  Should I heare now , my Daughters were misled  Or run away , I would not send a sigh  To fetch 'em back .  Is that the way on 't ? well , it shall be mine then   How ? since when ?  I will not reade , nor open it ; but conceive  Within my self the worst , that can befal them ;  That they are lost and no more mine . What follows ?  That I am happy : all my cares are flown .  The Counsel I anticipated from  My Friend , shall serve to set my Rest upon  ( Without all further helps ) to jovial Mirth ;  Which I will force out of my spleen so freely ,  That Grief shall lose her name , where I have being ;  And sadness , from my furthest foot of Land ,  While I have life , be banish'd .  My Tenants shal sit Rent-free for this twelve-month ;  And all my servants have their wages doubled ;  And so shall be my charge in House-keeping .  I hope my friends will finde and put me to 't .  And for thy news , the Money that thou hast ,  Is now thine own . I 'll make it good to Springlove .  Be sad with it and leave me . For I tell thee ,  I 'll purge my house of stupid melancholly .  I 'll double their allowance too ; that they may  Double their Numbers , and increase their Noyse :  These Bear not found enough : and one ( me thought )  Cri'd out among 'em .  We will have such a lying in , and such  A Christning ; such up-sitting and Ghossipping !  I mean to send forty miles Circuit at the least ,  To draw in all the Beggars can be found ;  And such Devices we will have for jollity ,  As Fame shall boast to all Posterity .  Am I not merry Hearty ? hearty merry ?  I 'll do 't for expiation of a crime  That 's charg'd upon my Conscience till 't be done .  We will have such a Festival moneth on 't , Randall —  Can this be ?  Good Heaven how merry they are .  Sad Hearty , no unless it be with envy  At their full happiness . What is an Estate  Of Wealth and Power , ballanc'd with their Freedom ,  But a meer load of outward complement ?  When they enjoy the Fruits of rich Content ?  Our Dross but weighs us down into Despair ,  While their sublimed spirits daunce i' th' Ayr .  True my Friend Hearty , thou having lesse then I ,  ( Of which I boast not ) art the merrier man :  But they exceed thee in that way so far ,  That should I know , my Children now were Beggars  ( Which yet I will not read ) I must conclude ,  They were not lost , nor I to be agriev'd .  Wondrous merry , my good Hearty .  Away . You would be punish'd . Oh .  A sudden qualm over-chils my stomack . But 't will away .  Take that amongst you . —  Gives Money .   Good Hearty , thou mistak'st me . I was thinking upon this Patrico . And that he has more soule then a born Beggar in him .  Pray forbear that Language .  You have rebuk'd me timely ; and most friendly .  Exit .   About with it , my Lads . And this is as it should be . — Not till my turn , Sir , I . Though , I confesse , I have had but three Morning-draughts to day .  I am no Snayle , Sir .  But where be my Catchers ? Come , a Round . And so let us drink .  Well said old Hearty . And , Gentlemen , welcome .  Oh mine ears ! What was that , a sigh ? And in my House ? Look : has it not split my Walls ? If not , make vent for it : Let it out : I shall be stifled else .  Exit . Chap.    Cause ? Can there be cause for sighing .  Ha ha ha . Is that a Cause ? Do you hear me complain the losse of my two Daughters ?  No more can be his Mistris . No Woman can be lost . They may be mis-laid a little : but found again , I warrant you .  Ods my life ! He sighs again : And means to blow me out of my House . To Horse again . Here 's no dwelling for me . Or stay : I 'll cure him , if I can . Give him more Sack , to drown his Suspirations .  Your Nephew Martin has stolne my Fathers Ward , that Gentlemans Bride that should have been .  Well said . He mends now .  Why this is excellent ! Come hither Hearty .  Worse than ever 't was ! Now he cries out-right .  You shall cry no Mercy , nor any thing else here , Sir ; nor for any thing , here , Sir . This is no place to cry in : Nor for any businesse . You , Sir , that come on businesse —  To Ol.    My House is for no businesse ; but the Belly-businesse . You finde not me so uncivill , Sir , as to ask you from whence you came ; who you are ; or what 's your businesse . I ask you no question . And can you be so discourteous , as to tell me , or my Friend , any thing like businesse . If you come to be merry with Me , you are welcome . If you have any businesse , forget it : You forget where you are else . And so to Dinner .  Spoyle my Stomack now , and I 'll not eat this fortnight .  He reads aside .   And I do hear thee , my Boy ; and rejoyce in thy conversion . If thou canst but hold now .  Now thou art a tall Fellow ; and shalt want no Sack .  Well , I have read the businesse here .  Grammercy Sack . Well , I have read the Matter here written by Master Clack . And do but bear up in thy humour , I will wait upon thee home .  Knock within .  Heark ! they knock to the Dresser . I have heard much of this old od-ceited Justice Clack : And now I long to see him . 'T is but crossing the Countrey two daies and a nights Journey . We 'll but dine and away presently . Bear up , I say , Master Talboy .  Why thus it should be : How was I deceiv'd ! Now I see you are a good Fellow .  Was that spoke like my Friend , Hearty ? Lack we Motives to laugh ? Are not all things , any thing , every thing to be laugh'd at ? And if nothing were to be seen , felt , heard , or understood , we would laugh at It too .  But is there a Play to be expected , and acted by Beggars ?  I have not known a man in such a Humour .  He do's so out-do us , that we look like staid men again , Hearty ; fine sober things .  I love a Miser's Feast dearly . To see how  thin and scattering the Dishes stood , as if they fear'd quarrelling .  How one of the Serving-men , untrain'd to wait , spilt the White-broth !  And most suitable to the Niggardlinesse of his Feast , we shall now have an Entertainment , or Play , presented by Beggars .  Are they ready for them all in the same Cloaths ? Read 'em , good Hearty .  Put me not in minde of the two lost Daughters , I prethee . What 's the next ?  Nor of a vagrant Steward . Sure some abuse is meant me .  That comes neerer me . Away with it .  All these Titles may serve to one Play , of a Story that I know too well . I 'll see none of them .  I , that ; and let 'em begin .  See , a most solemn Prologue .  True Stories and true Jests do seldom thrive on Stages .  Nay , rather than they shall suffer , I will be pleas'd , let 'em Play their worst .  Dost note this , Hearty ?  It begins my Story , and by the same Fortune-teller that told me my Daughters Fortunes ; almost in the same words . I know him now . And he speaks in the Play to one that personates me , as neer , as they can set him forth .  O , by no means , Sir ; I am pleas'd .  Whom do's he talk or look like , now ?  Blesse me ! Is not that Springlove ?  My own very words at his departure .  My Daughters and their Sweethearts too . I see  The scope of their Designe ; and the whole drift  Of all their Action now , with joy and comfort .  I must commend their Act in that . Praythee let 's call 'em , and end the matter here . The purpose of their Play , is but to work my Friendship , or their Peace with me ; and they have it .  My Man Randall too ! Has he a Part with 'em ?  You Sir . Leave the work you can do no better ( I can forbear no longer ) and call the Actors back again to me .  You shall give me leave .  Me ?  The Agnus Dei that my Mother gave me  Upon her Death-bed ! O the losse of it  Was my sore grief : And , now , with joy , it is  Restor'd by Miracle ! Do's your Sister live ?  Then the young Man lives !  My Joy begins to be too great within me !  My Blessing , and a Welcome to you all .  Be one anothers , and you all are mine .  Now I can read the Iustice of my Fate , and yours —  But more applaud great Providence in both .  Hear me for all then . Here are no Beggars ( you are but one , Patrico ) no Rogues , nor Players : But a select Company , to fill this House with Mirth . These are my Daughters ; these their Husbands ; and this that shall marry your Neece , a Gentleman , my Son . I will instantly Estate him in a thousand pound a yeer to entertain his Wife ; and to their Heirs for ever . Do you hear me now ?  Yes , though you whine your eyes out .  Now , Patrico , if you can quit your Function ,  To live a moderate Gentleman , I 'll give you  A competent Annuity for your life .  Except it be at Court , Boy ; where if ever I come , it shall be to beg the next Fool-Royal's place that falls . 