 Well sir , this is no cause nor place to fight in , when —  That old witherd piece . I know him .  He has lick'd up a living with his tongue ; makes all great tables his own ; and eats for his talke . He may be conversant with women : for ( they say ) he guelt himselfe  beyond Sea for spight one did him ; and now preaches chastity to Ladies , and love to their husbands . Hee 's a Lay-gospeller among the married sort , and an especiall pedant to the youth o' Court .  This is not yet a cause to fight for , when —  I 'le shew you somewhat of him . A Gentleman borne did you aske ?  Hee cannot be a Gentleman by birth or place . A fine-handed , and a fine headed fellow he is ; and pretends great skill and practice too in Picture-drawing , Watch-making , and such like finger workes ; which he sayes he uses as a Gentlemans exercise , not as a trade to live upon ; when either he does live on 't ; or else hee has some more secret way , as perhaps pimping or pursing for ought I know .  Yet still the cause is insufficient , when —  Is hee come ? Noble Mr. Dainty — The welcomst in the World . I protest I suffer'd by your absence .  Oh sir , your humble servant .  I protest Mr. Swayn-wit , I admire your ingenuity .  T is to your question sir , which I will answer .  This Lady sir , this humorous wity Lady is a wit-sponge , that suckes up wit from some , and holds as her own , untill shee squeeze it out on others . Shee will make use of ours , or any courser wits ; and search 'em out to sift 'em . Shee will collect from market-folkes ; and hold conferences with the poore Trades-people that cry their wares about the streets , Shee will rake wit out of a dunghill Ragwoman .  Still , still , the cause is naught , when —  Concerning the Mad courtier Madam , when 't is as likely , that his Taylor made him mad as you , for not hitting the fashion right in his last rich suit . But t is most like he fell from a reasonable man , by over-studying himselfe what Lord he should be at the next creation , whether of Gleek , or Cribbidge ; In and in , or Hazard .  I am Midlesex indeed ; borne i' th' City .  Pray give the Lady leave to speak though .  whew    Sprecious ! How now ! my Fob has been fubd to day of six pieces , and a dozen shillings at least . Nothing but a bowd groat left as I hope for my Grannums blessing .  Pox of ill company I say . My watch is gone out of my Pocket too o' th right side .  I never was in any quarrell i' my life . I alwayes run from 'em .  I onely stood to day at the Coranto-shop to read the last great news ; and I was hoop'd in I remember by some that seem'd to wonder as much as I .  I 'le go to honest Moll about it presently .  I 'le tell you what he is .  He is a Knight that hanckers about the Court , ambitious to make himselfe a Lord by begging . His braine is all Projects , and his soule nothing but Court-suits . He has begun more knavish suits at Court , then ever the Kings Taylor honestly finish'd , but never thriv'd by any : so that now hee 's almost fallen from a Pallace Begger to a spittle one . His businesse to my Lady now can be nothing but to borrow money to buy a paire of wheeles  to set some Project a going to Court for a Monopoly .  We have our projects too Sir .  Pray heare my project too sir ?  Mine is a good common wealths businesse , against the common Plague , that raignes i' th' City of Pick-pockets , and Cut-purses . I my selfe ha' bin robb'd to day , and am going to a good member that deales in private for the recoveries of such goods : One that shall undertake if you 'l but get a Patent , for a Cutpurse-hall , or Office , to helpe all men to their owne againe , allowing but the Tithes of their Losses , and freeing the offending parties .  Provided that notice be brought to the Office within foure and twenty houres after any such losse .  Wee may by the same course secure the Counties too , and make the hangman hang himselfe .  Well , you may speake your pleasure . This is no cause to fight for .  Why he here will have it so you see , and pull'd mee out .  Coward ! pish ! a common Name to men in buffe and feather . I scorne to answer to 't .  To fight when I see cause .  I am not to tell you that sir , It must be found out and given me before I ought to take notice .  Who that has any Religion will fight I say ?  Truly , in this wavering world I know not how to answer .  I thanke you sir , I would ha' said so .  Well sir , all are not choyce doggs that run , some are taken in to make up the cry .  Run my Countrey I cannot , for I was borne i' the City . I am no clown to run my Countrey .  Forbeare good sir , there are countrey Gentlemen as well as clownes , and for the rank I honour you .  I would — but —  I thinke I doe , I thinke I doe , and why should I maintaine an evill cause ?  Sir , if she be 't is not my fault , nor hers : somebody else made her so then I warrant you . But should another man tell me so !  I would say as much to him as to you . Nor indeed is any mans report of that a sufficient cause to provoke mee unlesse shee her selfe confess'd it , and then it were no cause at all .  I should have wit sir , and am acounted a wit within the walls , I am sure my Father was Master of his company , and of the wisest company too i' the city .  The Salters sir . For sal sapit omnia you know .  Comparatively shee might be in respect of some holy woman , the Lady Ramsey , Mistris Katherine Stubbs and such , ha , ha . Is that a cause ?  He may say his pleasure , It hurts her not : shee is dead and gone . Besides , at the best shee was but a woman , and at the worst shee might have her frailties like other women . And is that a cause for mee to fight for the dead , when wee are forbidden to pray for 'em ?  Why , I would civilly ask her if she were a whore ? If she confess'd it , then he were in the right , and I ought not to fight against him : for my cause were naught . If she deny'd it , then he were in an error , and his cause were naught , and I would not fight , 't were better he should live to repent his errour .  Hold I am unprepar'd .  Scabberd and all I pray sir , The cover of the book is allowd in courts to sweare upon .  Yes , if the wrong give me sufficient cause .  Gi' me the booke , I 'le have her from him , or him from her if he be without her belly , or Kill him if he be within her .  After you I will sir .  No sir , I am drawn you see .  I come my Philomel .  Was it not you that cry'd ?  We are a comming , you shall have help enough  I warrant , what 's the matter ? you shall not lack for help —  Florish his sword .   O that 's the Mad-man ! How madly he talkes !  Stones to make a bul-warke quoth a ! If he had  but to make a brace of Demy-culvering bullets , they were thumpers I thinke .  He would ha' had a mad bout with my Lady it seemes . He would ha' vented his madnes into her . And she could ha' drawn better then the Leaches .  You shall want no advise Madam . No strength ,  Let 's goe sir .  He snatcheth Phil. from Dainty , who took her by the arm .   I have sworne . Therefore I say no more , but I have sworne .  Exeunt Omnes ;   Sir Andrew Mendicant at home ?  Pray let him know that the Lady Strangelove  Requires him sodainly to remove his Madman  Out of her house ; or shee must take a course  Much to his disadvantage .  This is a surly fellow , and tho' I have sworn  The humor of fighting is scarce warme in me yet ,  And she advises him to find a better Doctor for him ,  For this has taken a wrong course .  I 'le tell 't you as a secret . The Physitian thought to have cur'd his patient , ( who has bin a notable Gamester at In and In ) between my Ladies legs . If I and two or three more ( but chiefly my selfe indeed ) had not rescued her , the Doctor had held the Lady-cow to the Mad-bull .  He thinks I lie now . And should he gi' me the lie , the vertue of my Oath were questionable .  True upon my life . So farewell honest friend .  Exit    And mine among the rest good Madam . I have taken care that a new Doctor shall be brought . Therefore in the first place my censure is , that this be presently hang'd out o' the way .  Yes Madam ; t is a Sowgelder .  Who Madam ? the Sowgelder ?  That will be sport indeed .  Exit .   I have brought him . The rarest fellow Madam ,  And doe you thanke your fortune in him Doctor ,  For he can sing a charme ( he sayes ) shall make  You feele no paine in your libbing or after it :  No Tooth-drawer , or Corne-cutter did ever worke  With so little feeling to a Patient .  Doctor it is decreed .  We are shut out of councell .  No matter , but I ha' sworn you know . Therefore I say no more , but I have sworn .  My Lady will convery her Madman to sir Andrew Mendicants it seemes .  Shee and the Doctor , and the tother Doctor 's gone with him too .  You know I ha' sworne . Doe you not know I ha' sworne ?  Would he were at Pensans agen .  Comparatively I thinke I did in respect of Corineus , that wrastled and threw Giant after Giant over the cliffs into the Sea .  That was comparatively too in respect of a pure Virgin ; a chrisome child or so .  Meerly comparatively I speake it .  Forbeare good Lady it was comparatively .  That is as much as any man I know ; That is I accuse nobody ; that is all are as innocent as the child , and hee as the innocent unborne . And let that satisfy you .  Comparatively it may be said , I am to a Church-warden , a Collector for the poore or such .  In my good wishes , and prayers I may : Heaven forbid else .  Heaven forbid I should then !  He has not tane her yet .  True , true : and if I be not reveng'd .  Your Lady gave you me .  You are in my possession , nor shall Lucifer dispossesse me of her .  Have I not cause ?  Yes , and a match forever .  Kisse .   A word shee alwayes uses in waggery .  Shee 's mine by act and deed sir according to the flesh , let her deny 't and she can .  By Law of armes and hands it shall , take that , and let her goe .  Will you not draw ? I will then .  Draw .   That 's not enough , I will make thee fight , what blindnesse have I liv'd in ! I would not but be valiant to be Cesar .  I 'le make thee fight , or cut thee into pieces .  VVhy dost thou weare a sword ? onely to hurt mens feet that Kick thee ?  Kick.    Pray hold your peace , I 'le jowle your heads together and so beat ton with tother else .  VVhy dost thou weare a Sword I say ?  Sirrah you lie , strike me for that , or I will beat thee abominably .  The wench thou lov'st and doat'st on is a whore .  No , no , That was not right , your father was a cuckold tho' , and you the sonne of a whore .  You count all this is true then . Incorrigible coward ! what was the last vile name you call'd mee Mr. Swain-wit ? O I remember , sirrah thou art a Pick-pocket and a Cut-purse ; And gi' me my money agen , and him his or I will cut thy throat .  Doe you answer nothing , doe you demurre upon 't ?  Comparatively or positively doe you speake ?  Speake positively , or I will beat thee superlatively .  Miraculous ! O the effects of valour !  You were best try ; or you , or both , or come all three .  Is this your picture-drawing ? are you the Kings Picture-drawer ? A neat denomination for a Cut-purse , that drawes the Kings Pictures out of men Pockets .  Yes , wee will use you in your kind sir .  All but one sir . Did you not lose your purse to day ?  This Picture-drawer drew it , and has drawne more of the Kings-pictures then all the Limners in the Towne . Restore it sirrah .  Ha' you another purse to lose ?  Let him but come so neare you as to aske forgivenesse for the last , and if he doe not take the next , though it be six fadome deepe i' your pocket I 'le hang for him when his time comes .  Did not I tell you sir ? And these are but his short armes ; I 'le undertake , when he makes a long arme , he shall take a purse twelve skore off .  I have her Madam , she is mine .  Her faults and all Madam , we are agreed o' that .  I would he were else , that I might have him under lawfull correction , and the cause o' my side : for he beat me not long since .  Agree'd Billy , agreed Philly . Never was man so sodainly , so rich ; Nay never looke Gentlemen , shee is mine , and hee 's mine own , I am sure I ha' got him now ; And all faults are salv'd .  No matter if we lose any thing , and he within ten miles of us I 'le make him answer 't .  Ha' you done the speeches Mr. Court wit ?  And shall my wife and Billi boy speake 'em ?  You write admirably I confesse ; But you have an ill tone to instruct in ; I 'le read to 'em my selfe , you give your words no grace .  Perhaps the Bride can furnish us .  Or Theeves , theeves ?  What dos he take us for ?  Yes , and dismantle his Projectors too .  You may doe so . He dare's not pick her pocket ,  And for her Maidenhead I dare trust him tho' he should  Dance quite out of sight with her .  Shee l ' have him , it seemes at last .  And now you generous spirits of the City  That are no lesse in money then braine wity ,  My selfe , my Bride , and pretty Bride-boy too ,  Our Poet for a Boun preferres to you . 