 And very justly , let me tell you , Sir ,  That could so impiously be curious  You tempt a judgement on you ; to give ear ,  And Faith too ( by your leave ) to Fortune-tellers ,  Wizards and Gipsies !  I would be drunk  A thousand times to bed , rather then dream  Of any of their Riddlemy Riddlemies .  If they prove happy so : If not , let 't go ;  You 'l never finde their meaning till the event ,  If you suppose there was , at all , a meaning ,  As the equivocating Devil had , when he  Cosen'd the Monk , to let him live soul-free ,  Till he should finde him sleeping between sheets :  The wary Monk , abjuring all such lodging ,  At last , by over-watching in his study ,  The foul Fiend took him napping with his nose  Betwixt the sheet-leaves of his conjuring Book .  There was the whim , or double meaning on 't .  But these fond Fortune-tellers , that know nothing ,  Aim to be thought more cunning then their Master ,  The foresaid Devil , tho' truly not so hurtful :  Yet , trust 'em hang em . Wizards ! old blinde Buzzards !  For once they hit , they miss a thousand times ;  And most times give quite contrary , bad for good ,  And best for worst . One told a Gentleman  His son should be a man-killer , and hang'd for 't :  Who , after prov'd a great and rich Physician ,  And with great Fame i th' Universitie  Hang'd up in Picture for a grave example .  There was the whim of that . Quite contrary !  They may : but trust not to 't . Another Schemist  Found , that a squint-ey'd boy should prove a notable  Pick-purse , and afterwards a most strong thief ;  When he grew up to be a cunning Lawyer ,  And at last died a Judge . Quite contrary !  How many have been mark'd out by these Wizards  For fools , that after have been prick'd for Sheriffs ?  Was not a Shepheard-boy foretold to be  A Drunkard , and to get his living from  Bawds , Whores , Theeves , Quarrellors , and the like ?  And did he not become a Suburbe Iustice ?  And live in Wine and Worship by the Fees  Rack'd out of such Delinquents ? There 's the whim on 't .  Now I come to you : Your Figure-stinger finds ,  That both your Daughters , notwithstanding all  Your great Possessions , which they are Co-Heirs of ,  Shall yet be Beggars : May it not be meant ,  ( If , as I said , there be a meaning in it )  They may prove Courtiers , or great Courtiers wives .  And so be Beggars in Law ? Is not that  the whim on 't think you ? you shall think no worse on 't .  I thank you , Sir .  I would you had ; and I  Such an Estate as yours . Four thousand yearly ,  With such a heart as mine , would defie Fortune ,  And all her babling Sooth-sayers . I 'd as soon  Distrust in Providence , as lend a fear  To such a Destiny , for a Child of mine ,  While there be Sack and Songs in Town or Country .  Think like a man of conscience ( now I am serious )  What justice can there be for such a curse  To fall upon your Heirs ? Do you not live  Free , out of Law , or grieving any man ?  Are you not th' onely rich man lives un-envied ?  Have you not all the praises of the Rich ,  And prayers of the Poor ? Did ever any  Servant , or Hireling , Neighbour , Kindred curse you ,  Or wish one minute shorten'd of your life ?  Have you one grudging Tenant ? will they not all  Fight for you ? Do they not teach their Children ,  And make 'em too , pray for you morn and evening ,  And in their Graces too , as duly as  For King and Realme ? The innocent things would think  They ought not eat else .  It is your merit . Your great love and bounty  Procures from Heaven those inspirations in 'em .  Whose Rent did ever you exact ? whose have  You not remitted , when by casualties  Of fire , of floods , of common dearth , or sickness ,  Poor men were brought behind hand ? Nay , whose losses .  Have you not piously repair'd ?  What Hariots have you tane from forlorne Widows ?  What Acre of your thousands have you rack'd ?  These are enough , indeed ,  To fill your ears with joyful acclamations  Where e're you pass : Heaven bless our Landlord Oldrent ;  Our Master Oldrent ; our good Patron Oldrent .  Cannot these sounds conjure that evil spirit  Of fear out of you , that your Children shall  Live to be Beggars ? Shall Squire Oldrent's Daughters  Weare old rents in their Garments ? ( there 's a whim too )  Because a Fortune-teller told you so ?  Will you ride forth for air then , and be merry ?  Sack must be had in sundry places too .  For Songs I am provided .  Your Steward , Sir , it seems has business with you .  I wish you would have none .  I 'll wait your coming down , Sir .  Exit .   No further thought , I hope , of Fortunes tell-tales .  Nay , when a man meets with bad tidings ,  why  May not be then compel his minde to mirth ;  As well as puling stomacks are made strong  By caring against Appetite ?  It relishes not you 'll say . No more does Meat  That is most savory to a long sick stomack ,  Until by Strife and Custom 't is made good .  I never noted him so sad before .  He neither sings nor whistles .  What speak you of a Clod of Earth ; a Hind ?  But one degree above a Beast , compar'd  To th' aëry spirit of a Gentleman ?  'T is very pretty .  Suppose the Ass be tir'd with sadness : will you disburden him  To load your self ? Think of your Covenant to be merry  In spight of Fortune and her Riddle-makers .  He 's ever in his Care . But that I know  The old Squire 's virtue , I should think Springlove  Were sure his Bastard .  Yes ; but not hearty merry . There 's a whim now .  And how easie for Monie to corrupt it .  What a pure Treasurer would he make !  I hope he 's run away with some large Trust ,  I never lik'd such demure down-look'd Fellows .  If you be not 't is well . But this is from the Covenant .  To'ther old Song for that .  THere was an old fellow at Waltham Cross ,  Who merrily sung when he liv'd by the Loss .  He never was heard to sigh with Hey-ho :  But sent it out with a Haigh trolly lo .  He chear'd up his Heart , when his Goods went to wrack ,  With a heghm boy , heghm , and a Cup of old Sack .  What 's the whim now ?  For them I 'll be your Undertaker , Sir .  But this is over-done . I do not like it .  The straw ! that 's very proper there . That 's Randal's whim .  Would you were else . I fear this over-doing .  What 's that ? what saies he ?  There 's Randal again .  Art there agen , old Randal ?  Pray let 's see 'em , Sir .  HEre , safe in our Skipper , let 's cly off our Peck ,  And bowse in defiance o' th' Harman-beck .  Here 's Pannum and Lap , and good Poplars of Yarrum ,  To fill up the Crib , and to comfort the Quarron .  Now bowse a round health to the Go-well and Com-well  Of Cisley Bumtrincket that lies in the Strummel .  Now bowse a round health to the Go-well and Com-well  Of Cisley Bumtrincket that lies in the Strummel .  Here 's Ruffpeck and Casson , and all of the best ,  And Scraps of the Dainties of Gentry Cofe's Feast .  Here 's Grunter and Bleater , with Tib of the Buttry ,  And Margery Prater , all drest without sluttry .  For all this bene Cribbing and Peck let us then ,  Bowse a health to the Gentry Cofe of the Ken .  Now bowse a round health to the Go-well and Com-well  Of Cisley Bumtrincket that lies in the Strummel .  Be not you sad at that .  I ha' not so much Wealth to weigh me down ,  Nor so little ( I thank Chance ) as to daunce naked .  If this be madness , 't is a merry Fit .  'T is a good Vote , Sir Patrico : but you are too grave . Let us hear and see something of your merry Grigs , that can sing , play Gambals , and do Feats .  Yes , pray let 's hear her . What is she your wife ?  A learned Cleark in veritie !  How finde you , Sir , your self ?  How is it with you , Sir ?  And as your walks may lead this way :  Pray strike in here another day .  So you may go , Sir Patrico —  How think you , Sir ? or what ? or why do you think at all , unless on Sack and Supper-time ? do you fall back ? do you not know the danger of relapses ?  Rogue enough though , to offer us his what-d'ecalts ?  his Doxies . Heart and a cup of Sack , do we look like old Beggar-niglers ?  Will you then talk of Sack , that can drown sighing ? will you in , to supper , and take me there your Guest ? Or must I creep into the Barn among your welcome ones ?  Would all were well with him .  Exit .   May it concern me ?  Indeed , Sir .  Another Glasse of Sack . This Gentleman brings good news .  Hang all Preventions . Let 'em have their Destiny .  He mends apace .  Then I do , Sir . The poore base Fellow , that you speak of , is my Nephew : As good a Gentleman as your self . I understand the businesse by your Friend here .  Sir , I pray let me onely prevail with you but to reade this .  While he reads , let me tell you , Sir . That my Nephew Martin has stolne that Gentlemans Mistris , it seems , is true . But I protest , as I am a Gentleman , I know nothing of the matter ; nor where he or she is . But , as I am the foresaid Gentleman , I am glad on 't with all my heart . Ha , my Boy Mat . Thou shall restore our House .  Grieve him ? What should he do with her ; teach their Children to cry ?  Now thou art a brave fellow . So , so , hold up thy head , and thou shalt have a Wife , and a fine Thing .  What is the Motive of your Mirth , Nephew Martin ? Let us laugh with you .  And of his own finding ! He stole it , indeed , out of his own Bottles , rather than be rob'd of his Liquor . Misers use to tipple themselves so .  But how long will it last ? He 'll hang himself to morrow , for the Cost we have put him to .  And how the Bottles , to scape breaking one another , were brought up by one at once !  And another , stumbling at the Threshold , tumbled in his Dish of Rouncevals before him .  First , here 's The two lost Daughters .  The vagrant Steward .  The old Squire and the Fortune-teller .  The Beggars Prophecy .  Then here 's The merry Beggars .  That offered you a Doxie in the Barn .  You said you would be pleas'd , let 'em play their worst .  It is no matter whom . You are pleas'd , you say .  Is that you , that talks to him , or that Cockscombe I , do you think ? Pray let 'em play their Play : the Justice will not hinder 'em , you see ; he 's asleep .  No matter . Pray attend .  But take no notice yet . See a Whim more of it . But the mad Rogue that acted me , I must make drunk anon .  But see a little more , Sir .  Hear no more Fortunes .  I so me thought . No , Sir . The Play is done .  Nephew Martin , still the Childe with a Suckbottle of Sack . Peace , Lambe ; and I 'll finde a wife for thee . 