 Beset the Quarter round . Be sure that none escape .  A many counterfeit Rogues ! So frolick and so lamentable all in a breath ? You were acting a Play but now : We 'll act with you . Incorrigible Vagabonds .  Married ! Not so I hope . Where is she ? 'T is for an Heire we seek .  What tell'st thou me of this ? An old blind Beggar-woman . We must finde a young Gentlewoman-Heire among you . Where 's all the rest of the Crew ?  Look you to that , and to these here .  She 's scap'd , or is invisible . You Sir , I take to be the chief Rogue of this Regiment . Let him be whipt till he brings forth the Heire .  Precious , how did my hast oversee her ? O Mistris Amie ! Could I , or your Uncle , Justice Clack , a wiser man than I , ever ha' thought to have found you in such company ?  And thither will I lead you as my Guest . But to the Law surrender all the rest . I 'll make your peace .  Of beggarly news , the best you have heard .  True , Sir Oliver , I found her —  I thought your desire was to be inform'd .  Justice Clack still ! He must talk all . His Clack must onely go .  Most true , Sir . But the Company she was in —  But do you know whom , or how many we have taken ? and how the rest escap'd ?  But Sir , we have taken with her such Beggars , such Rogues , such Vagabonds , and such Hedge-birds ( since you call 'em so ) as you never knew , or heard of , though now the Countries swarm with 'em under every Hedge , as if an innumerable Army of 'em were lately disbanded without Pay . Hedge-birds said you ? Hedge Lady-birds , Hedge Cavaliers , Hedge Souldier , Hedge Lawyer , Hedge Fidlers , Hedge Poet , Hedge Players , and a Hedge Priest among 'em . Such we have taken for the Principals . But to see how the  Multitude scap'd us ; was more sport than pitty . How , upon a Watch-word given , they in the instant vanish'd by more severall waies than there were legs among 'em ; how the Creeples leap'd over Pales and Hedges ; how the Blinde found their way thorow Lakes and Ditches ; how a Doxie flew with two Children at her back , and two more , perhaps , in her belly —  Yes , Sir , an old Patrico , an ancient Prophet , to tell Fortunes , and cozen our poor Country People of their single Money .  Yes , Sir . And they were contriving to act a Play among themselves , just as we surpriz'd 'em , and spoil'd their Sport .  You shall do well in that ; to put 'hem in stock to set up again .  Pray Sir , be not severe , they act Kings and Emperours , as well as Iustices . And Iustice is blinde they say : you may therefore be pleas'd to wink a little . I finde that you have merry old Gentlemen in your House , that are come far to visit you . I 'll undertake that these Players , with the help of their Poet ; in a device which they have already studied , and a pack of Cloaths which I shall supply 'em with , shall give your Guests much content , and move compassion in you towards the poor Strowles .  But for your Guests sakes , who ( I know ) do favour and affect the Quality of Actors very much , permit 'em , Sir . It will inlarge your Entertainment exceedingly .  In her own best Apparell . But you must prorogue your displeasure to her too .  Do you hear , Friend , you serve Master Oldrents .  Your name is Randall .  No . But I have Notes to know you by .  Your Masters Stewards name is Springlove .  Yes , and your Masters Daughters too .  And that they are all from home , your Master knows not where .  Yes , and the two young Gentlemen that are with 'em , Master Vincent , and Master Hilliard .  Even here by , at my own House .  And they knowing that your Master is here , and Master Hearty too —  And your self too . They directed me to finde you , Randall , and bring you to 'em .  But secretly . Not a word to any body .  Randall , you forget .  A word aside , an 't please you . —  See , Sir , your Neece presented to you .  None can disprove it . I am witnesse to it . 