 HEre in this gallery Gentlemen you may , at your pleasure ,  Untill my Lady comes , walk or sit .  If you so , wrong not my Ladies Couch with your Spurres I pray : take heed you leave not a Rowell there .  You have a good countrey wit sir .  I honour you the more sir , for I am a Countrey Maide my selfe .  Why would you presse him then ?  For my poore sake forbeare sir .  Nothing , you heare he whistles tother way .  What new guest ha' you brought here Mr. Court-wit , for my Lady to laugh at ?  Ha' you heard o' that sir ?  O sweet Mr. Court-wit , when will you bring the fine civill Gentleman , that maintaines himselfe so gallantly by picture drawing ?  Nay sweet sir stay , there is sir with my Lady none but the grave and witty talking Knight . Some call him the metrapolitane wit of Court ; he that loves Ladyes society so much , and yet has vow'd virginity .  But will not that fine Gentleman Mr. Dainty come , Mr. Court-wit ?  I 'le see if their conference be ended , or breake it if I can , and hasten my Lady to you .  Exit .   Gentlemen , my Lady cannot yet be rid of the tedious talking Knight . But shee will cast him presently . He is now following her into this roome , pray passe into the next ; my Ladies Musick roome . There you shall find a collation of good Tobacco and Sack and one to attend you , you know the fashions of the House Mr. Court-wit .  I could even love and looke upon that sweete Mr. Dainty a whole houre methinks .  And blessing of himselfe ,  As witch-craft were i' th' house .  They are all in your wit-office Madam ( as you call the Roome )  Passing the time among the Pipes and Bottles ,  And singing catches . Here you may heare 'em Madam .  A catch .   Sir Andrew Mendicant desires to see you Madam .  I told him you were busy . But hee sayes hee is to speake with you upon a weighty businesse from the Court .  THese are the Lodgings , that my Lady appointed  For your distracted patient .  Willingly . I am not taken with the sight you bring  For I see mad-folkes enough every day .  Exit .   Madam .  Now am I call'd into correction ,  When shee is vext and wants the company  Shee likes , then come I into question ,  'T is common among Ladies with their women .  Doe you read any Madam  Upon my face or lookes ? I never was in love  Much with my face , nor ever hated it . But if I thought  It had upon 't , or in it , any trespasse  Against your Ladyship ( my heart being cleare )  These Nayles should claw it out .  Teare .   Go , you are such a Lady , ha , ha , ha .  You said you would be serious .  I Madam , you had never known that same else .  Yes most severely Madam on your promise —  I finde no fault in all that . But he is  So base a coward , that he may be soone  Beaten out of his wit and money .  If he were valiant now I could say something ,  But to wait for growing to 't were such a losse of time .  Hee 's the others extreame . I might feare him but never love him .  As of a Courtier Madam , that has tasted  So much of all waters , that when he has a fountaine of his owne  Hee 'l be too jealous of it .  And feard that every man will drink of 's cup  When perhaps none dares touch it , were I it .  I am bound from lying . Madam hee 's the man .  Ha , ha , ha , ha , Madam , ha , ha , ha . O the picture drawer ! ha , ha , ha .  O , I love drawing and painting , as no Lady better ,  who for the most part are of their occupation that professe it . And shall I tell all Madam ?  I hope I am handsome enough too . For I have heard that Limners or Picture-drawers , doe covet to have the fairest and best featur'd wives , ( or if not wives , Mistresses ) that they can possibly purchace , to draw naked Pictures by , as of Diana , Venus , Andromeda , Leda , or the like , either vertuous or lascivious ; whom they make to sit or stand naked in all the severall postures , and to lie as many wayes to helpe their art in drawing , who knowes how I may set his fancy a worke ? and with modesty enough . We were all naked once , and must be so againe . I could sit for the naked Shepherdesse , with one Leg over the tother Knee , picking the Thorne out of her Foote most neatly , to make the Satyre peepe under .  Was it not here ?  O t is my Lady in the Madmans chamber . Is her mirth come to this ?  Here , here the dore 's made fast .  Exe. omnes    What mean you Mr. Cit-wit ?  Is she at your dispose sir ?  Court takes aside with Dainty .   Or am in her gift ?  So valiant on a sodaine !  You 'l have me with all faults ?  O pittifull Picture-drawer !  And I see 't too , was ever poor wench so couzend in a man ?  How 's that ?  Was ever woman so mistaken o' both sides ?  Suppose this Boy be mine .  I 'le speak the Speech : Ha' not I forgot my Actors tone tro ? I shal remember 't , I could have acted 'em all ore .  I my Boy , now I dare vouch thee .  O by no meanes , we must speake Charon faire ,  Or hee 'l not waft us o're the Stigian Floud ,  Then must we have a sop for Cerberus  To stop his yawning Chaps ; Let me alone  To be your Convoy to Elizium .  I 'le pass that snarling triple-headed Cur  Which keeps the pallace-gate of Pluto's Court ,  And guide you safe through pitchy Acheron .  No , no my Lady has tane care for all .  From my Italian Mount I did espy  ( For what is hidden from a Deity ? )  How faintly Hymen did his Office here  Joyning two Lovers with the hand of feare ;  Putting his Torch out for obscurity ;  And made the Chamber ( which belongs to me )  His Temple . But from hence let feare remove .  See here , the Champions for the Queene of Love .  Courage 1 , sent from Mars ; The Muses 2 kill .  From wise Apollo . And the God , which still  Inspires with subtilty , sly Mercury  Sends this his Agent 3 . Here 's Activity 4  From Jupiter 5 himselfe ; And from her store  Of Spies , the Moon sends This to keepe the dore .  With Art of Action , now , make good the place ,  In right of Love to give the Nuptialls Grace .  And though you tast of no such Bride-ale Cup ,  He hopes y' allow the Match to be clapt up . 