 If so ,  I am to tell the King he has won your love .  So from the doubtful darknesse of the night ,  The blushing morn Ushers the cheerful Sun ,  To give new light and life unto the World :  I shall revive my King with these glad tydings .  Just with the same devotion ; If I durst  I would say more .  He do's allow 't a Table , Waiters and Officers  That eat the meat .  And at night  He lodges it perpetually on his bosome .  Here , just here ;  And 't please your Majesty o' the hearts side .  Most gracious Queen   But when your Highness shall behold , nay more  Shall touch , nay more and nearer shall embrace ,  Nay more and nearer yet , enfold and handle ,  Nay more and nearest of all , enjoy  The lively ( that 's too little ) heavenly substance  Of this poor imaginary , which is as short ,  As far inferiour to the life ,  As a weak star-light to the mid day Sun .  Sir ,  Suppose you see a glorious Firmament ,  Bedek'd with heavenly Stars ; so shines her Court  With Ladies might be thought of matchlesse beauty ,  Striking meer humane sight with admiration .  Imagine now you see break through a Vail  Amidst those Stars , though heavenly lesser beauties  The bright Cynthia in her full of Lustre .  So this no lesse to be compared Queen ,  Shines above beauty to an humane eye  That is not mix'd with powerful Maiesty .  You may behold her your Divinity ,  My King may comprehend what can befit  Me only to confesse , I do admire .  I have seen  One so agreeable to my affection  Above all the rest , I cannot but confesse  I strove to be her Servant .  For fair Vertue  With all the graces which adorn the mind ,  In best opinion she 's unparallel'd  By any Subject , Lady , ( I must ever  Allow Supremacy unto the Queen )  And for her Person , it appears in all  Most answerable to her face . Of which here is  Th' exactest Copy that I could get drawn ,  And without flattery by the Queens own Lymner .  With the same hand .  What sayes your Majesty ?  You have let fall the Queen . Sir .  I could but perceive  Your Highnesse viewing them well . And I have learn'd  To make no search into my Soveraigns thoughts .  Sir , you have given me the Queens Picture .  I told you first her Vertues ,  Her person next , and by this her beauty ,  Which you are pleas'd to deem not much amisse .  That 's all her blemish .  You search with Kingly wisedom . She is daughter  To that hold obstinate Baron I enform'd you of ,  Whom the Queen in her just displeasure banish'd .  Heaven blesse the King .  Who waits within there ?  I should want judgement  Not to grant that .  I have known women oft marry one another .  Their Pictures may perhaps have greater vertue .  How fares your Highnesse ?  Retire Sir to your Couch .  The King 's not well .  You do not well to vex the King  You see he 's sick .  Who waits within there ? call the Kings Physitians . 