 I Shall repent me , sir , that ere I yeilded ,  In that faire Noble way , if you expresse  Your selfe in this regardlesse of my honour .  Can you expect  A Chast and constant Wife of her , Whom you  Have wrought to Lewdnesse before Marriage ?  Or may I not as well deserve as well in bringing  A Maidenhead into your Marriage-bed ,  As a polluted Body ?  His Parish Bull 's as civill .  I with your Sister , and to better purpose .  And the Vintner too .  There are two Gentlemen in the next room ,  That by all meanes would speake with you : I have had  The foulest coyle with one of 'em , that perswades  Himselfe you keep a Bawdy-house , by somewhat  He gather'd Evesdropping , by your discourse here ,  While t'other held me talking ; who is civill ,  And loves me with a modest fair affection .  Unseen I wrrrant you .  Pre ye Sir , have you been ever in France ?  For , if you could speak Fransh , I could the better  Find what you say . I can no understand  What t is you mean by price . What is that Price ,  If it be no Welch Gentleman ?  Parle Françoy Monsieur , Je vou prie .  Fee fee Monsieur . O fee ! t is no good fashion ,  For the young Man and Mayd to no ting but kisse !  Fee fee , you no understand . That Gentleman ,  Speaks he no Fransh ?  He Monsieur vou mocque de Moy.   Ha Monsieur vou parle francoy . Je sui ' bien aisie .  Excuse me Sir , I can no understand .  Indeed I can . But , in my best , and all  I cannot understand you Sir , nor frame  An answer to your rudenesse . When you know me  Better , you le speak in better phrase , and then  T is like you may finde better language from me :  Till when , pray give me leave to leave you Sir .  So you le be civill .  Sir , I have heard you with that patience  ( And with no better ) as the troubled Pilot  Endures a Tempest , or contrary winds :  Who , finding nerethelesse his Tackling sure ,  His Vessell tight , and Sea-room round about him ,  Playes with the waves , and vies his confidence  Above the blasts of Fortune , till he winns  His way , through all her threatnings , to his Port .  You may apply this .  It deserves no answer .  But to be rid of you , together with  The Devill , that inflam'd you to that question ;  Know , that knew I of such a plot or project ;  Or , that I had a Father ( as injuriously  You have suggested ) could be so inhumane ,  To prostitute my spotlesse Virgine honour  To Lust for Salary , I would as sure prevent it ,  As there is force in poyson , Cord , or Steel ,  At price of both our lives . Sir , I have sayd —  Exit .   TRes bien venue Madames .  You are very welcome .  Madamoyselle , si vous plaist .  O , she is very good . She learn very well .  VVhat is that you say ?  She come but dis day ; And she carry both the hands already .  Yes , and before to morrow , she shall carry the foot as well .  You may learn dat of de leetle Shild . De leetle Shild you see will handle de ting , before it can set one foot to de ground . Come , let me see you make a Reverance .  T is dat you call a Curtsie . Let me see you make Curtsie .  O fee , fee — dat is de gross english Douck , for de swagbuttock'd-wife of de Pesant .  Fee , dat is worse . See how you carry de hands like de Comedien dat act de shangling .  Let me see your hands .  Yes , yes , and all your other parts and members .  To love , and lye with you Courtly .  You shall know all de waies to winne his Love ,  Or any mans , to multiply your honour . —  Not onely in your looks , your smiles and sweet Caresses .  ( Besides the help of Painting ) that adorn  The face ; But with the motion of each Lineament ,  Of the whole frame of your wel order'd body .  An Eye , a Lip , a finger shall not move ;  A Toe trip unregarded . But your Geat  And your whole gracefull Presence shall attract ,  ( Beyond affection ) admiration :  As I le artifice you .  O most allowably ; nay , commendably .  Then for the Art of dressing , setting forth Head , Face , Neck , Breast , ; with which I will inspire you .  To cover , or discover any part —  Unto de best advantage .  You shall have no defect perceiv'd , no grace conceal'd .  Thas been suggested by invective men ,  Women , to justifie themselves that way ,  Began that Fashion . As one tother side ,  The fashion of mens Brow-locks was perhaps  Devis'd out of necessity , to hide  All il-grac'd forehead ; Or besprinckled with  The outward Symptomes of some inward griefe .  As , formerly the Saffron-steeped Linnen ,  By some great man found usefull against Vermine ,  Was ta'ne up for a fashionable wearing .  Some Lord that was no Niggard of his Beauty ,  Might bring up narrow brims to publish it .  Another , to obscure his , or perhaps  To hide defects thereof , might bring up broad ones .  As questionless , the streight , neat timber'd Leg ,  First wore the Troncks , and long Silk-hole : As likely  The Baker-knees , or some strange shamble shanks ,  Begat the Ancle-breeches .  These among men , are followed for the fashions ,  That were invented for the better grace .  ( As our Attires ) to set off Limb , or face .  You professe Nobly , sir .  Yes , and admire your goodness .  Your haes and hoes can not draw her from me , shee is my Wife .  Indeed it was equall in her and mee . 