 The great Bells of our Town , they tingle they tangle ,  They jingle they jangle , the Tenner of them goes merrily .  And shall we have a Queen ?  Take heed o'th at , woman did you say ? Take heed , I  Give you warning . No man must know she is a woman  But the King himself . But a brave Queen she is they say ,  And loves a man with all her heart .  Where art O Queen ? we 'l make thee  Such an holy day , as shall  Justle all the working dayes out of our Almanack . It  Shall be said that we will work no more till thy  Seventh Son , O Queen , who must be born a Prophet , shall  Foretel , the Age to come shall not have a true labourer  Or honest workman in it .  Let work no more be thought on , we will revel it out  Of remembrance , we will not cease our joy to sleep , for  Fear we dream of work again . Down with your prophane  Tools , and Implements of Husbandry , the very sight of 'em  Dishonours our new holy day .  How ?  Not wood to make a Bonefire ?  Your Sheeplocks , Flayles , Spades ,  Shovels , Rakes and Pitchforks , shall all be made a Bonefire .  The maids shall bring their Rocks , their Wheels and Reels , their Tubs , their Pales & Buttocks .  Where was my mind ?  Their Buckets shall they bring , Washbowls and Butter-churns ,  Their Buckingtubs , Baskets and Battledoors ;  And all be made a Bonefire for the Queen .  We 'l burn her for a witch then with all her trash ,  And her thatcht mansion too about her Ears ,  But we will shew our zeal unto the Queen  In fire sufficient .  Sfoot , if our Masters do rebel against us  Now Majesty 's on our side , and not give fewel ,  When we mean to give fire , as duty binds  We 'l have their Carts by th' arses , Hardles , Wheelbarrows ,  The Ploughs and Harrows , and the Whips ;  Because the Beasts shall play too ; only we 'l spare  Their Racks and Mangers . All that 's made of wood  Belonging to our work besides , shall perish ,  Shall perish , I have said it . Not the Politique  Molecatchers staff shall scape the flame .  Not low us wood ? we 'l drink up all the drink to the Queens health  And burn the Hogsheads , Barrels , Kilderkins ,  Firkins and Rundlets , all to the wooden dish  Shall smoak for 't in our bonefire for the Queen .  Here , here , just here , in this very place , I come to mark  The ground , here it shall blaze up to the Heavens , and  We will roast our Town Bull at it , with a thousand  Puddings in his belly .  Nothing too dear to signifie our loves to the  King and Queen , let us bestir us therefore ,  And enact this as a law amongst us , That  He that does not gall his hands to day with  Ringing , shall be hang'd up in the bell-rope ;  And he that is not soundly liquor'd by night shall  Be made fewel for our Bonefire ; such dry Rascals  Will burn better then Hereticks .  And last of all , he that does not keep his wench  Waking in the way that we wot of till to morrow milking time , shall either be  Gelt , or else led through the Town by that which  Shall be namelesse in a cleft stick . And so God save  The Queen .  The King we make no doubt of , we have pray'd  For him these seven years .  To make the bravest bonefire that ever blaz'd since  Troy , or that which the Tyrant Emperor warm'd  His hands at .  We must forbear , what Hebrew 's that ?  We understand not what must forbear means .  Must ? that word had nev'r been nam'd had all been Jeffrey ;  We must forbear to set our loves on fire  Unto the King , Dost thou not feel thy self  O man what e're thou art , becoming a Traytor ?  Knowst thou the words thou speakest against the King ?  Then let us drink his health .  Then let us drink exceedingly .  Then let us ring our Bells for that , and make a Funeral Bonefire .  I say his Majesties first word shall stand for Bells and Bonefires ,  Though we set the Town a fire , and ring the Bells backwards .  A Gentleman and a Courtier , where be they ?  I see but one .  What monsters are bred in Affrica ? I take you but  For one at most ; well , for the Gentleman that you  Are , thus I salute you ; Now for the Courtier that  Is within you , I must wait upon it here ; this posterior posture did  I learn of a Spanniel whose name was Courtier .  Now let me tell you Master Gentleman and Courtier , that we are  Sorry that sicknesse should make our King and Master  So fickle headed as to crosse our sports thus , that we  Meant to have made him such an holy-day as might  Have prov'd more worth to him than a Wife and  Twenty sicknesses besides : Yet can we not be so sorry for his sickness as that it  Was his mishap to play mock holyday with us .  Your Friend and Jeffrey .  Up to the Gallows shall I not ?  He takes me for a fool , I 'l make a venture on 't ,  The best is , many a Fool has thriv'd at Court ; and  The worst is , I am not the first that has forsaken  His Country . I 'l along with you Sir , and if I rise  By you , I shall quickly learn Courtship enough  To forget to thank you : And for your parts my  Old Friends , what need soever you may have of  Me , you must be sure I 'l be a stranger to you .  The hobby horse of preferment gallops me from you ;  If you chance to see me in my robes hereafter  When I come to be the Fool Royal , you may admire my  Garments , and whisper to your acquaintance very softly ,  That you knew me once , But on your Allegiance look  Not that I should know you then .  'T is true , for when they are in disgrace the silliest  Clown will not know them .  High in fooling thou wouldst say silly Constable ; yet there 's no  Great danger . One fool may outstand six favourites .  I Sir , I 'l take no shift with me , I shall shift  The better when I come there .  Commend me to all the Lasses , and let not them , nor  Do not you grieve for my departure , nor for  The holyday that here is lost ; instead of which , that  You may haue a new one , I wish that one of you , even he  That loves me best , as speedily as may be would deserve  Hanging , that the rest may make holyday for him .  Sic valete valetote .  not I , neam King ? wilt thou not take me with thee ?  O but they shall not neam , 't is more then they  Can do .  All ? wilt thou leave all thy fools behind thee neam ?  And where will you find wise men to whip 'em all ?  We shall make whipping one another shortly .  Trust me a trim Court-complement . I am advanc'd  To high promotion , am I not ? to wear long coats again ,  And feed on whipping cheer ? but hark you  Cousin Lord , do you reward fools at Court ?  And is desert rewarded here too ?  Then 't is desert gets whipping , and Fooling gets reward .  I 'l not forsake the Court for that yet , where I hope to  Get enough to raise half my Country .  By begging a monopoly , Cousin Lord . You know fools will  Alwayes be begging , they are naturally enclin'd to it ,  Else none would be Courtiers .  I hope the King will give it me , if the Lord that  Walk'd with him bring him in again as wise as  He went out .  'T is a monopoly of fools my Lords . That the King  Would carry no fools with him but of my election , and  By my allowance , and that when he comes  Back into his own Country , he bring no new  Ones from thence , but by the same Authority .  According to the degree , or estate , or quality of the fool ,  Cousin Lord .  Not so politique Cousin Lord , as a Statesman that paid his  Head for his learning , nor so covetous as a Churchwarden  May be , when I am dead and gone . But as I was  A saying , I 'l use my fools according to their quality  Or breed . If he be a poor fool , I 'l make him pay the more  For 't . If he be rich , I may be beholding to him another way .  If he be a fool natural and poorly born , he 's  Sure to pay enough for 't . But if he have more breeding  Then Capacity , and be a nobly discended fool , I 'l use him  The better for your sakes Cousin Lords , and the rather because  I hope you will further my suit to the King . And so  I 'l wait his coming in at the back Stairs .  You are cosen'd Cousin Lord , it is the Fool , Cousin ;  How does my neam , the King ?  I ask'd my Cousin Doctor already , and he saies ,  My neam King 's asleep .  No Cousin Lord , I come to sing him a lullaby  Out of the dream of the Divel and Dives , shall  Make him sleep till he wakes again , and 't be this month .  O Lord , O Cousin Lord , I cannot go for running .  News , neam King , news , news ;  News that will make thee well , beest thou never so sick .  News that beest thou never so well , will make thee sick .  News that will make thee mad , beest thou never so tame .  News that beest thou never so mad , will make thee tame .  A wife , a wife , a wife can do all this .  The Queen is come , and all my Cousin Lords  Are gone to fetch her in in pompe : Oh ho ,  Knight me , oh Knight me quickly for my news .  Away you Favourite .  Hinder me not unlesse I prophesie ,  Kings , Fools and Favourites never shall agree .  And many years after we are in our graves ,  Fools shall be Knights , and Favourites shall be — known  From black Sheep , I prophesie .  Oh ho , she comes , she comes ; now neam King ,  Bear up stiff before and meet her . Here 's a day ,  And a night towards indeed . Oh ho , the house  Begins to reel already , and all our brains turn  Round ; oh ho .  Oh what a night will here be ? what a night will here be ?  What a beast am I ? that I have not at least half ( Lasses with child now ,  A score of my wholesome Countrey  That forty weeks hence the Queen might have her  Choice of Nurses ; there had been a thriving way to raise  My fortunes indeed . Oh what a night will here be !  A boon , a boon , my gratious Liege .  Come , leave your fooling , hear a wise man speak :  Great King according unto thy behest  With Knights adventurers I went in quest ,  Through the Woods and Forrests wild  To scoure the Dens of Outlaws vild ;  Whence these old men , this Knave I bring  Together with this Starveling ;  Whom I present not dead , but quick  Unto thy grace King Osriick .  Whose fool am I then ?  Whoop , hold a little , best let me be every bodies fool  Round about the house .  But amongst you all , let me not lose reward ;  I must not fool for nought ; the times are hard .  I shall have nothing shall I ?  It is enough in conscience ; who bids more ?  For till you are out-bidden , I 'l be your fool .  But can you tell whose Favourite you are then ?  I 'l off with him , for 't is unknown to you  What good a fool may on a mad man do . 