 Goe your wayes down Mayd , and if any aske for Sir Raphael here , say that I hope hee will ha' done anon .  That 's a poore Chamber-mayds office ; and ill becomes your gravity Sir Raphael .  Now you speake scholler-like , and your selfe : But have we spent all this while in by , and idle talke , and have that volume to be open'd yet ? Pray read mee for the first Lesson for this Mornings Exercise , and my Edification , the last Chapter of my book of errors as you call it .  Begins it so ? whom is that spoken to ?  Why then all 's paid , and wellcome good Sir Raphael .  They hit me not . I am sure I do not feele 'em .  You come too neare mee sir , cause I would have it so ?  Have I done so ?  If they will follow it , I cannot helpe it .  O sir Raphael —  On good Sir Raphael .  Halfe the worlds sorrow is mine own  For that sad accident , I would I coold redeem't  With halfe my health or life . But let me tell you  ( Now you have justly chidden me ) that you  Have a fault too .  As I conceal'd my vow of single living ,  And gave men leave to court me , by which meanes  I won them into hopes , and robd their wits ,  You in declaring to the Court and City  Your vow of chastity and single life ,  Yet dayly , nightly , howerly frequenting  The company of Ladies , with your sweet ,  No lesse then grave discourse and conversation  Have rob'd ( nay I may say deflowr'd ) more Ladies  Of chast and honorable thoughts , then all  The cavalry of Court .  Even you sir Raphael ( if unchast desires  Must be held sinfull ) I know some of them ,  And one ( I feare ) too well , that have bin subject  Unto the breach of any vow for you ,  Yet you to vow a single and chast life ;  And publish your intent !  O , but forbidden things are womens longings !  You have read , you have read ( sir Raphael ) you have read .  Falls on her Couch .   Pray sit down by me .  I 'le not be tedious to you . One word I pray sir ?  Pray refuse not  To sit downe by me .  Sir , you are famous , and cry'd up by all  For your great wisdome , Morall and Divine :  You are the Ipse dixit of the Court  As I have heard you stil'd by men of learning ,  The Court Philosopher —  What is our strength , and what is not our frailty ?  Doe not my blushes ( which I hope you pardon )  Deliver you a message from my heart ?  Which I want words to utter ? O these vowes !  These rash and ill-made vowes ! dos not your judgement  Read something on this face ? pray look upon me .  I dare not speake , till you have first remov'd  A weighty scruple , which doth much perplexe me .  Whether these vowes ,  ( I meane your own , and mine , for single life )  May safely be dispens'd with or absolv'd ,  And we become a lawfull paire in Marriage ?  Pray sir resolve and blesse me in a Match .  You will first kill me  With your disdaine , and then you 'l pray for me !  Is that your Charity ?  Leave me not so .  I had no other way to shift him , would he would make  An errand now to Rome to quit my scruple ;  And rid the Court of an officious foole :  Women some times have sent wise men to schoole .  Is the Knight gone ?  But where 's my favorite Court-wit , has he brought his countrey Kinsman and the rest ?  Marry , this takes past all sir Raphaels Lectures ,  Goe call 'em downe .  Exit Phi.    This Madam troubles me , ' would he were right agen ;  Or I quit of the scandall .  O Gentlemen ! y' are welcome ,  And chiefly you that are the onely stranger ,  I ha' been so troubled with an overtalking sir , that he  Has wound me into melancholly —  Be not so briefe with mee , let mee intreat you though .  Mistake me not sweet sir —  Not as a suitor to me sir ?  You ga' me his true character . You are a compleat Gentleman sir ( if I mistake not ) the Kinsman of my favorite here , who has given me an ample relation of your worth and vertue .  But to the businesse Gentlemen .  You have heard I doubt not of a disastrous blot lately cast upon my fame , out of my owne freenesse .  Since there is an aspersion layd upon my freenesse in giving entertainment unto persons of great and noble quality , the world deeming it to be done by me meerly  for ostentation , to cry my own humor up , by drawing them into Love-knots , and then to slight or scorne them : My resolution is from henceforth , to exclude those great resorts , and friendly and freely be merry within our selfes . I have foure thousand a yeare to spend ; and will be huswife good enough to keepe in compasse . I will not entertaine a servant , friend or guest above your rank or fortunes —  I thinke you Gentlemen of worth and quality : and therefore welcome . I thinke you able to maintaine your selfes midle-sis'd Gent.   I 'le give accesse to none , that the censorious world shall dare to judge a suitor to me ,  Or to finde favour further then meat and wine .  Mauger the greatnesse of my former visitants  I give you my election for the chiefes  Of my familier society .  I may perhaps call in , ( at least admit )  People of meaner garbe , without ( I hope  Your grudge or envy . But they shall be men  Of Science , Art , and Action .  Why not ? I love their quality and them , and mean to have the use of some of 'em shortly : Besides Musitians ( Poets in the first place ) and Painters : In which last mention'd art I heare you are excellent , though all this while so silent .  I must commend their ingenuity for whom you tooke those paines . But ( where I left ) I must make use of wits , of arts , and actions .  True favorite for a Masque that I intend to have shortly , you shall performe the poeticall part , your  servant Citwit the Musicall . And by your skill and directions the Painters office for the scenes . Dancers and speakers I have in store .  Marry and thanke you too sir .  Now your Newes .  You should have told him I would not be seene by him .  T is the Court-begger . You know him favorite .  Goe not away , I 'le bring him in amongst you ,  And ( as you love me ) put some ridiculous projects to him .  Exit .   Sir , since it is requested by those great ones  Whose power cannot command me in this case  ( For t is my charity and not my duty )  I am content that the mad Ferdinand  Shall sojourne in my house for his recovery .  He shall have it then  Towards the expiation of the crime  They charge me with . But in case sir Andrew  He should be cur'd by this meanes , I should then  Crosse you in fortune and your future hopes  Of his estate ; which you have beg'd you say  If he recover not .  Will you be pleas'd sir to take notice of  These Gentlemen my friends . They may be usefull  Salute   For they have all projective braines I tell you .  An excellent fellow : I like him for that fancy more then all the rest .  Yes good sir Andrew , you shall not part so abruptly .  Come sir , they are but ( as you said ) merry with you .  Pray do sir Andrew , bring your Mad-man . My garden Lodgings shall be his bedlem . Come gentlemen t is Dinner-time .  By what oppression or tiranny ( for Law  I 'm sure could never do 't ) is my house here  Confiscated or usurp'd , and I become your slave ?  Your slave , lay your commands on mee , what drudgery doe you appoint me to ?  To make my house a hell ?  The noyse of Bedlem is soft Musick to 't .  Could your Projectorship find no house else  To make a mad-man madder in but mine ?  And me as mad as he too with the trouble .  Was it your plot then sir Philosophaster ,  That so you might under pretext of reading  Philosophy to him , to cure his madnesse  Make your adresse to me to prosequte  Your Love-suite when I thought I had answer'd you ,  But if you must proceede , o'recome me if you can ,  Yet let me warne you to take heede withall  You pull not a disease unto you , that may  By your ungovern'd hast post into  Your grave : for I shall prove a torment to you ,  Though you 'l take no denyall , take yet a warning .  Pardon mee vertuous sir , it is my love to you that tortures mee into this wild distraction . O sit Raphael .  I shall in time be rid of all such Guests ,  And have the liberty of mine owne house  With mine own company , and to mine own ends  Where are you Phil ? I were but dead if I had not this wench to foole withall sometimes .  I must be a little serious with you , shut the dore .  Why that down looke , as if you meant to fetch  An answer , or excuse out of your Apron-strings  Before you are charged or question'd ? what new faule  Has past of late ?  Nay be not passionate Phil.  I know you cannot  Forget the care I have had of you ; nor should you  Distrust me in the promises I have made you ,  Bearing your selfe according to your covenant Phil ,  Of which one Article is to laugh with me .  Now thou comst to me wench : hadst forgot ?  Dost not thou know my seriousnesse is to laugh in private ,  And that thou art bound to stir that humour in me ?  There 's but two things more condition'd in thy service ;  To do what I bid thee , and tell me the truth  In all things that I aske thee .  Of the clap thou hadst i' the Countrey e're I took thee ,  But hast thou faithfully kept thine own e're since ?  Well we will have a husband then to solder up the old crack ,  I have already made my choyce for you :  Your sweete-heart Cit-wit makes most suite to you ,  And has a good Estate , and wit enough  Too for a husband , and a handsome person .  But if he should prove valiant !  What say to Swayn-wit ?  What think you of my speciall favorite Mr. Court-wit ?  What say to Dainty then the curious Limner ?  Well I 'le take thy cause in hand wench : But yet we are not merry . I am inclin'd most jovially to mirth me thinks . Pray Jove some good be towards . Laugh or I 'le pinch you , till you doe .  I , come , the Picture drawer .  By all meanes Phil.  — now shee 's enter'd .  Well thou shalt have him .  Let in the Boy . Now sir your newes ?  Now seekes he my assistance in his cure .  Goe you and entertaine the Gentlemen , while I consult with the Doctor , let him enter .  Now Mr. Doctor ! you come to aske my counsell I know for your impatient Patient . But let me tell you first , the most learned Authors , that I can turne over ; as Dioscorides , Avicen , Galen , and Hyppocrates are much discrepant in their opinions concerning the remedies for his disease .  Therefore I trust you 'l pardon my weaknesse , if my opinion jumps not altogether with your judgement .  My purpose is to advise you though , that , if his Frenzie proceed from love as you conjecture , that you administer of the rootes of Hellebore , destill'd together with Salt-peter , and the flowers of blind Netles , I 'le give you the proportions , and the quantity is to take .  But if his Malady grow out of ambition , and his over weening hopes of greatnesse ( as I conjecture ) then he may take a top of Cedar , or an Oake-apple is very soveraigne with the spirit of Hempseed .  To let me know , that that part of my house which I allow you is too little for you .  But you must claime possession of the rest , You are come to warne me out on 't ; are you not ?  Or do you call my attendance on his person , by way of a Nurse-keeper ? I can do little service .  Come to it quickly then .  Come to the point , you 'ld have me visit him .  By your favour sir , you say  Saving my honor and estate I am bound ,  But may I with the safety of my Life ,  And limbes , and a whole skin dare venture .  You might more safely lay  Lives of a hundred Patients .  Come for once I 'le trust you .  Exit .   Helpe , helpe , here helpe — ha —  Above .   Help , help , a rape , a rape , murder , help !  Draw all    Is there helpe , helpe , helpe ?  Above .   Was ever such a practice ?  I say it was a practise in the Doctor .  You had broke up the dore first . That was but to colour his trechery .  I 'le think upon some way to make him a dreadfull example to all the Pandarean Doctors i' the Towne . Come in Gentlemen , and helpe mee with your advices .  Keepe him from me .  I first would heare your censures .  How ? Proceed .  Hearke yee Gentlemen . Do you heare ?  A Guelders horne .   Fetch in that Minister of Justice .  Why not as well as other women have  Seene the dissections of Anotamies ,  And executed men rip'd up and quarter'd ?  This spectacle will be comicall to those .  Sing then , he shall not suffer without a Song .  Forbeare him , let him down .  Well sir your weighty secret now to save your trifles .  You shall allow me so much warinesse as to have one at least to be my Guard , and witnesse .  I doe , and did before suspect it : and fram'd this counterfet plot upon you , Doctor , to worke out the  discovery : would I ha' seene you guelt d ee think ? That would have renderd mee more brutish then the women Barbers . Looke sir this is no Guelder , but one of my house Musick . ( Goe , your part is done —  Exit .  And for th' affright you gave me , Doctor , I am even w' ye .  But for the secret you have told me I 'le keepe it secret yet , I will keepe you so too ; and from your Patient .  Enter Boy .   There 's a new Docter come already Madam to the madman .  From sir Andrew Mendicant ?  Ingage your selfe with no desire to know ,  But , for the good you finde , fit thanks to owe ;  So come with me , and come you Gentlemen .  Ex. Omnes    I doe not slight your act in the discovery ,  But your imposture sir , and beastly practise  VVas before whisper'd to me by your Doctor  To save his Epididamies .  T is in my power  To make you the perpetuall shame of Court ;  And will assuredly doe 't , if you comply not  VVith me to make this injur'd Gentlemans fortune  In his belov'd Charissa .  In fewest and the softest words sir Andrew .  ( He sleepes ) and let him gently be convey'd  Onely with those about him to his Chamber .  By all best reason ,  Mend. & Strang .   For when we found he us'd Charissa's Name ,  When he was calme and gentle , calling still  Charissa ! where 's Charissa ? a good space  Before he slept , and being then demanded  What would he with Charissa ? He most readily  Reply'd , Fetch me Charissa and a Priest .  The Doctors in their judgements ( unto which  My full opinion assented ) might  Foresee , that in removing him , where she  Might be his immediat object , when he wakes ,  That fresher flames to instant marriage  Would then arise .  Yet not without your leave would I attempt it ;  Without your leave , knowing your watchfull care  Over your Daughter .  Take all unto your selfe , I am content .  But have you heard sir Andrew the mischance  Of the unfortunate Lover , distracted Frederick ?  H' has made himselfe away .  ( Hee has by this time , or the Priest is tongue-ty'd . )  And heare me good Sir Andrew , for the Love  I bring to ad unto your joyes : for I  Foreseeing the event of this nights happinesse  Have warn'd some friends to follow me with Revells  To celebrate the Marriage of your fortunes .  See they are come . Pray entertaine 'em sir .  The same : but very harmelesse .  What 's the meaning ?  And Mr. Cit-wit , you have worthily wonne my woman sir .  I 'le make her worth a thousand pound to you , besides all she has of her own .  To your busines Gentlemen ; if you have a  They consult .  short speech or two , the boy 's a prety Actor ; and his mother can play her part ; women-Actors now grow in request . Sir Andrew ! melancholly ?  Fear no further mishap sir ; t is ominous to feare .  Pray give mee leave to make the first discovery ;  Walke downe into the Garden , I 'le come to you ;  And here are some would speak with you .  Ex. severally .   Here sir , and am become your Usher to such guests you ?  As you must bid most welcome .  Mend. stands amaz'd    Nay sir Raphael , I potest we will be friends notwithstanding I have outstript you in your plot of matching your Nephew Frederick , here to his love Charissa .  Harke ! the Revellers .  Let him goe and weare out his fit by himselfe .  Florish .   Sententious sir Raphel .  Upon those honourable tearmes sir Ferdinando I will be yours .  You question well .  You consider well .  You reason well , Would all were pleas'd as well  T' absolve that doubt , to those we must appeale .  LAdyes , your suffrages I chiefly crave  For th' humble Poet . T is in you to save  Him , from the rigorous censure of the rest ,  May you give grace as y' are with Beauty blest .  True : Hee 's no dandling on a Courtly lap ,  Yet may obtaine a smile , if not a clap . 