 And you have my Mortgage .  Because its pumpt into  The purses of such wretches as thy selfe .  And you the Mud  That foster it .  Into the Mud , oft-times , from whence it came .  According to the Ballad .  [ He sings . ]   I , to thy comfort . This is the Usurers Scripture ;  And all that they pretend Salvation by :  To give good admonition with their Money ;  Though , in their hearts they wish the quick subversion  Of all they deal with . This is all they plead  Against the curses of oppressed soules :  Did not I warne you ? Did not I say , take heed ?  And so , and so forth . I must thank you Sir .  Yes Mr. Vermine , in a Project , that —  I 'm confident shall set me out of debt ,  With you and all the World ; and reap , againe ,  All , that I formerly have sowne , with profit .  That I will in sooth .  You have had your blow .  No Sir , my Project is in the behalfe  Of the poor Gentleman , you overthrew  By the strong hand of Law , Bribes , and oppression ;  Brookall : Do you know him Sir ? whose state you suck'd ▪  That wrought him to a poverty that cryes  Your sinfull Covetise up to the heighth ;  And renders you the Monster of our time ,  For avarice and cruelty .  You should do well to add a sum , like this  To his releife : To wave the bitter curse  That will in time fall on you and your house .  I wish I could redeem that ruthfull fault ,  By all expiatory meanes : But thy  Inhumane cruelty is inexpiable :  Unlesse ( it comes from Heaven into my heart  To move thee to 't ) thou tak'st a speedy course  To give him threefold restitution .  I le put thee in the way . He has a Son ,  A hopefull Youth , a Student in the Law ,  If his poor Fathers want of means have not  Declined his course : Give him thy onely Daughter ,  And make his Fathers owne Inheritance  ( By thee unrighteously usurpt ) her Dowry ;  And pray a blessing may go with it ; And then  Thou mayst regaine a Christian reputation ,  Till age shall lead thee to a quiet Grave .  Come , is 't a match ? Will you bestow your Daughter  On Brookalls Son , and make your way to Heaven by 't ?  And thou hast Adders eares  To all such Counsells .  Farewell Vermine .  Exit .   Do but heare patiently , and do your pleasure .  J go not about to stop your course , Mr. Bumpsey .  But good Mr. Bumpsey , Brother Bumpsey , I would call you —  Perhaps no Gentleman .  Yes like the priviledge you use in your owne house here .  Freely .  For that heare me .  Must I heare this too .  Will you do so ?  I le take my leave Sir .  I have businesse ,  And go well satisfied with this agreement :  And , Val . take briefly this my Charge : You are now  A Husband , be a good one : Y' have my blessing .  But ( heark you ) do you remember 'gainst the evening ?  Sir , fare you well .  I le shortly visit you .  Now pretty Mr. Alice , you see the end  I had upon you : All the scope thereof  Tending to your contentment . Are you pleas'd ?  Let your feare vanish then : And , if this night ,  The happiness you are ambitious of ,  Together with your Fathers leave and blessing  Crown not your Bed , let all the Infamy  Due to all perjur'd Wretches , that have wrong'd  Beauty and Chastity be branded here .  As I have trusted you with my whole project ,  My discreet Alice , further then I dare trust  My Instrument your Brother ; though he thinks  He understands it all . Yonder he is ,  Profoundly Love-struck too , I make no doubt .  Now Wat , what think you of my course , and habit ?  A , ha , my Lad .  Notable Reprobate .  Had I rak'd Limbo , as I did the Compter ,  I were not better fitted with a Copesmate .  And I think ,  That curtesie you have seldome done your Father .  Well Wat . You see how far I have trusted you ,  To have the second hand in our great work ;  Our Project here . Though you must seem my Servant ,  You are like to have the better share , if you agree .  Upon the Match , and make your selfe my Son .  How like you your new Mistresse , sir , my Daughter ;  The Maidenhead here , the new Ordinary —  The Damoyselle , or what you please to call her ?  What i st a Match Wat ? Condescendeth she ?  She shall deny thee nothing . What i st Wat ?  What is it man ?  O Devilish Rascall ,  That can imagine this a Fathers Office !  Patience good Wat .  In Maides about your work . And heare you Franck  Discharge the Butchers , and the Chandlers Bills .  They wait below . The Baker and the Brewer ,  I have made even with .  The Bottle-man too , and Tobacco Merchant .  Do as I bid you , go . Now Wat Observe me :  As an ingenious Critick would observe  The first Scene of a comedy , for feare  He lose the Plot .  I have , you know , releas'd from your thralldome .  Upon condition you should steale your Sister ,  To be at my dispose . You have perform'd it :  Yes ▪ honestly , as you say .  And though it be for her own absolute good ;  Yet was your Act so gratefull to me , that  I promis'd you my Daughter .  I shall be briefe : you know my Fortune , VVat  Are sunk , and you have heard , I make no doubt ,  'Mongst other of my follies , of a Child  I got on Brookealls sister , on the by , Wat .  You come fairely on .  But now , my poverty affords no portion .  Now , Wat , to raise a portion !  Now I come to it , Wat : J tooke this house ,  And in this habit here , turn'd pimping Host ,  To make the most of her , and find a Husband  To take her with all faults .  You will be secret Wat .  Nay in a plot of villany I dare trust thee .  This I have design'd to put her off  ( I mean her Maiden-head ) at such a rate  Shall purchase Land .  She shall be rifled for .  Yes , rifled Wat ; the most at three fair throws ,  With three fair Dice , must win and wear her , Wat .  You le take her with all faults ?  But twenty Pieces , boy .  A full hundred .  What art thou thinking , Wat ?  Why , there 's but one must use her .  Here 's a ripe Rascall !  Now your doubt  Reflects upon my Iudgement : didst thou note  How quietly those Gallants here to day  Parted with their gold ?  They shall agree as well for the Commodity ,  As I have cast it , VVat ; so well my boy ,  That no distaste shall be or ta'ne , or given ,  Anon you le see .  Anon I le make 't all plain to you . How now Frank ?  Where is his sister , Alice ?  Then let them enter . Whip into your disguise Wat —  Exit Fran.    And be at call .  Did they Eavesdrop me ? I will Eavesdrop too . —  I have enough . You are welcome Gentlemen .  I am the man that 's much rejoyc'd to see  Such sparkling Spirits underneath this Roofe ,  Where all you finde is yours . Sirrah Varlet .  Varlet I say .  Give me the Complement . Gallants ,  Wilt please you taste your welcome in a Cup ,  The spirit of whose never dying Liquor ,  Speaks ore the brim in this high Language to you .  Full six and thirty times hath Luna wan'd  The strength she got in six and thirty growths  From Phoebus vertuous beames , into this Juyce ,  To make it Nectar for Phoebean wits .  T is this inspires their braines with fire Divine ,  By which to write high straines ; and herein lurks ,  The gift , One has to bounce up his own works .  Thou shalt not wooe my Daughter , nor ne man for thy sake ,  Sing .   Unlasse thou come untill her by her Daddy nak'd .  Her Mammy's gone to Heaven Sir . And I pray ,  Let Fathers poor breed Daughters as they may .  What do you mean Sir ?  I finde you have overheard me . Call my Daughter .  Exit Wat.    Now I le disclose a secret to you . But Gentlemen ,  As you love wit and mirth , censure me mildly .  I am a Gentleman decayd in Fortune .  Be not too rash .  My Child 's as deare in my respect , as you  Were ever to your Father .  You had discover'd more , if his impatience  Had not prevented me : But now I am dumb to you  In all , but this . If you le be pleas'd to sup here ,  I shall afford you welcome . I have businesse .  Exit .   I prethee Wat , have patience for an houre .  Nay , look you Wat .  But Heare me , Wat .  Now , would his Bodies paines convert his Soule ,  T were a good work .  But how was it my fault ?  You were as forward in it as my selfe ,  And wooed me you might have her without all faults .  But J believe ,  They were almost beaten out first .  A Beggar-wenches breed would propagate  Your name most numerously .  'Sfoot , she 's in her Mawdlin fit : All her wine  showres out in teares .  Pray have her in . Look carefully to her ,  In all to the next Room . —  Exeunt Fra. Jane leading out Magdalen .   Sir , no such matter .  No , nor depart your selfe , but by Authority .  J am provided for you . Friends come in .  Enter two Sergeants .   And do your Office .  Sir , J mistrusted your Apostacy .  Since you revolt , J must recall my money ;  Or lay you where J found you , as you threatned your Sister here .  You have prevail'd , Sir .  There was no other meanes to work it by ,  But that I us'd ; to urg'd him past his Nature .  He was so free in 's Villany , that I  Giving the Spurs , ran him beyond his speed ;  Quite off his Legs , and glad to be led home .  Your Mother-'Law , after she had got  As much French Carriage , as might serve to furnish  A petty Court ; is fallen into a fit ,  To over-throw it all againe .  As I could wish ; And well satisfied .  For , when they understood the honest end ,  My Project aim'd at ; which , by an Oration  VVell charg'd with virtuous Sentences , I forc'd  Into the nobler Breasts : they all recanted  The barbarous purpose ; and as freely left  Their money for that Charitable use ,  To which I pre-intended it . The rest  Purs'd theirs again . But yet I have collected  In this odd uncouth way , five hundred Pounds ,  That was laid down at stake for a Virginity ,  To make an honest stock for Franck .  How now ! what 's here ? How might he come by this ?  It is the scorn I sent my injur'd Love ;  My abus'd Elynor : The hand , that threw  Her from me . O , that at the price of it  I could receive her .  You shall know all , and briefely . Franck , come in .  Enter Franck .   Now Gentlemen —  She does not tast of sin . Faire Chastity  Sits crown'd upon her Brow , with an aspect ,  May beat down Lust to Hell , from whence it rose .  Then heare the story ; which your late Impatience  would not permit .  I am a Gentleman , that by foule misdeed  ( Heaven , Heaven I aske thee pardon ) once did wrong  To an unfortunate Family , by rejecting ,  After affiance , and her love abus'd ,  A Gentlewoman —  T was so .  Shee , on the discontent , ( poore haplesse Soule )  Now foureteen Winters since though sadly burden'd ,  Fled , and no more is heard of : at the first  My wildnesse took no sense of this deare Losse ;  But drew me through the wayes of carelesse pleasure ,  By riotous expence , that mine estate  And Credit ran at waste , and was nigh spent ,  Untill my trespasse cry'd against my Conscience  To render satisfaction : but in vaine  We offer to the dead . My Genius therefore  Prompts me to gratefull deeds unto her Blood .  Shee had a Brother , that lost his estate  By Law —  To a Corrupt Oppressor —  Was stript out of the very Coat he wore ,  Had nothing left him , but a Sonne —  Even all that may be ; ( see ) His Sonne 's my Daughter .  Discover Franc.    Now do you find my project Gentlemen ?  It has at Charge of three dayes House-keeping  Put halfe a thousand pounds in 's purse ; Besides  A faire pull for his Fathers Land againe :  For he has , by a lawfull Church-man , married  The Daughter of his Fathers Adversary .  Come Mrs. Alice ; and justifie your Act .  Enter Alice    By stronger Charmes , then your Art can dissolve . You know me now , Sir — And my Project , do you not ?  Discovers himselfe .   My love ! my Elynor !  I will not sleep , before the holy Priest  Has done the Office . Blessing on my Girle .  What 's that ?  I 'll talk with his Father .  And Wat stand you but firme , and live reform'd ,  Winning my Daughters love , you shall have mine .  This binds us all into a Brother-hood .  So may we with a generall embrace ,  Create the Heart of Friendship , not the Face .  Come Gentlemen , your Ordinary stayes ,  T will prove good fare ( I hope ) though no rich Feast ;  And acceptable to each welcome Guest . 