 Sir , far above my duty .  Had I no tears nor sobs to interrupt  My flattering Tongue , but had speech as free  As the best Orator that speaks for fee  Could , or durst I attempt t' express your goodness ,  More then to say , 't is more then I can say .  But honour'd Father , grant me yet one Bone .  You shall know presently  Dries her eyes .   Pray give me leave to kneel unto the Queen  To try what I can do for your repeal .  'T were shame we should sit down and lose you thus .  The Queen affects me well . You know she loves me .  And promis'd once she would deny me nothing .  I will in all obey you .  Ay me .  O , O , O.   But must I never see you more ?  To wait your coming thither I 'l afore .  Gentle Nurse , forbear me .  E'en drowned in griefe too Brother .  O my brother ,  That knowledge is a grief of no lesse horror ,  Then was the bloody news that pierc'd my heart .  Mention that love no more , nor call it love ,  Which is but foul desire .  What ? love a Sister so ? are you a man ?  Can you unto your shame seek my dishonour ?  To damn us both , in that abhorred way  Which by avoyding , man is best distinguish'd  From the most brutish beasts .  I cannot , may not peace , nor suffer word  Importing such a purpose pierce mine ears .  Twice have I beaten back your monstrous lust ,  ( Could I but call it lust , it were too much  Though in a Monarch to my Virgin honour ;  But in you beastly Incest ) and before  I 'l live in danger of one offer more ,  I 'l die by mine own hand .  He indeed  Was a most vertuous Brother .  Pray , let me think a little .  H 'as taught me to dissemble ; Heaven that knows  My thoughts are chaste and pure , will pardon me  I hope , if to preserve my life and him  From greater sin , I use a little of  The art too too much practic'd among women ,  Of smooth hypocrisie . I know his heart is bloody ;  And he may be too suddain , if I win not  Time on him , by some subtiler shift to wave  His foul attempts , untill I get free  Out of this gripe to use my liberty .  My Lord and brother .  That I love  Your noble person , nay am taken with it ,  With more then sisterly affection , is  A truth no way to be dissembled ; you  Already like a well read scholler find it ,  In Cupids love-letters my friend , my maiden blushes .  But when I consider ,  What scandal , or what too neer Affinity  In noble blood , and the Nobility of our house ,  ( Unfit to fall within the centre of the Law ,  Or the constructions of mens ruder manners )  May cast upon us .  It is yet  Too intricate a doubt for me to find  A resolution in . But my sweet Lord ,  ( Oh that I could not call you Brother ) then  I would be nearer to you then a Sister .  So eager and so equal is my love  With yours ; if you please but to give me time ,  But one weeks liberty , to frame my self  Obedient to your will in all , I now  Will give you a faithful pledge to render  The satisfaction you demand .  A loving kisse .  But you shall swear by 't that you will not  A bridge my liberty , nor urge your suit  Further these seven dayes .  My patience never bought a kiss so dear .  But keep your vow .  He 's not yet perfect , you must strive my love ,  To curb your hot desires , as I do mine .  I could my self dwell ever on your lips ,  Never outgo the circle of your arms .  Could I but hope to be your wife . But O ,  What I have promis'd you , I must allow  At the time limited ; till then urge it not .  For take my vow with yours , if you dare break it ,  I dare to kill my self ; and by that time ,  If I not yield my self unto your will ,  My life is yours either to save or kill .  HElp , help , oh help .  O you diviner powers that ordain'd chastity  To be a vertue , lend your strength to guard it .  Yet a begger  Is better then a Whore .  Would you first spoil my honor to repair it ?  Not before  Our Covenant is pass'd ; that is , the Priest  Has joyn'd our hearts and hands .  O grant that it be true .  Here , stay thy stomach ; there 's a crust I brought  To stop the open mouth of the Mastive , if he had flown at us .  I will away this night .  That trouble keeps him waking ; and I fear  Will rather spur him forwards then withhold him .  Come Nurse , my fear is over , if they be  Men , and bring us out o th' house ,  They cannot be so dangerous as he I scap'd .  O Sir , lay by this high dissimulation ;  For though I find you now are not my brother .  Not Anthynus ?  Yes , the bright Sun discovers not a truth  More evident then that you are Anthynus  Nor ever shin'd on man I lov'd so well ,  Or hop'd to marry , since you are not my brother .  Indeed I came  To tell you so , and could you clear your hand  Of the foul stain of blood you are accus'd of ,  Were I sole monarchess of all this Island ,  I 'd kneel to beg a brides place in your bed .  Nay , mark me further ;  If you clear not your self , I 'l not outlive you ,  To call to mind the man that I so lov'd  Butcher'd his Father ; though he was not mine ,  I lov'd him as a father ; oh good heaven !  How good ? how reverend a man was he ?  I may say as well ,  I do not love you .  Prove that , I am yours .  Why did you mock me then ?  Now I am lost for ever ,  In being the Daughter of a murder'd Father ,  And made uncapable of you in marriage .  O me !  O pray take heed .  Peace , he did not say so .  Indeed I must not leave you .  And mine .  The other two his fellows are both extant :  For whom together with three theevish workmen  That were strong instruments in my delivery ,  Let me beg mercy . 