 Fie Gentlemen , forbear this unknown language .  And either speak to others understanding ,  If you speak Justice :  Pray Gentlemen , if you 'll not hear each other , yet both hear me .  You had his sonne to foster ; he your daughter .  You faithfully affirme you sent his sonne  For England a moneth since .  You have confest you put away his daughter .  Some Villain forg'd that letter ,  And let me tell you sir , though in your house ,  Lafoy's an honest and a temperate man .  You are rash and unadvis'd , what Lafoy speaks  I will maintain for truth : what you have done  I wish you could make good ; But I may fear  You are mark't out by your own wilfulnesse ,  The subject of much woe and sad misfortune .  Indeed I pity you , and now y' are calme ,  Know that Lafoy sent his sonne over with yours ,  And but for some affaires he had with me ,  I' th Isle of Wight he had embarqu'd himself  With them , and brought hem to you .  And is come over feare not .  Take an example here Monsieur Lafoy ,  And shake of sadnesse ; mirth may come unlook't for .  I ha' lost a sonne too , a wilde roaring Lad ,  About this town . And if I finde not him ,  I doubt not I shall finde , that he has spent me  A hundred pound since I last heard of him .  By the way sir , I sent you a bill of change  Last moneth , to pay a hundred pieces for me .  What ailes he troe .  Yes , with our lives and fortune .  'T is my daughter — .  My blessing on you . — What are you here too .  O y' are a great good husband .  'T is like sir , I shall prove your Furtherer .  What is she ?  Well talk aside then .  And Madam , since you stick but upon Joyncture ,  Having heard lately well of his husbandry .  I will secure you  Three hundred pounds a year , your brother knows me .  Be not dismay'd . These marriages are none .  The errour of the persons nullifies  The verbal ceremony ; and 't is well  They past not unto further rites : I 'le finde  A lawful way to clear all this . And then  As you and they consent , they shall exchange  And marry in due order .  Is each party  Agreed , and so content ?  But yet not break up house . My sonne and daughter .  Have given me power to call their Supper mine .  To which I 'le give you welcome , Ale and VVine . 