 Such a Verdict , Madam ,  Requires an O Edipus to construe it .  I neither know 't , nor am solicitous  After the meaning .  Nothing but contradictions .  He commands here .  Contend not for the Jewel — we agree ,  Eudyna is the Jewel . — which shall both of you enrich .  How shall she enrich us both ? Can she be wife to us both ?  Then here he bids  Pursue your Fortune . — And we both agree  Eudyna is that Fortune too : she 's both  The Jewel we must not contend for ; and  The Fortune we must both pursue . Then here  He sayes t is she shall make us what we seem to be .  What do we seem ? we are no Hypocrites  In flesh or spirit ; no phantastick bodies  Or shadows of humanity .  This we can do .  So vows Philocles ,  'T is not the cloudy language of the Gods  Shall make our breasts tempestuous or stormy :  But with the same serenity and quiet ,  As heretofore our hearts shall mingle still ,  And fortifie their truce . Let the event  Expound their Ridle . If good , it is our merit ;  If bad , we know our vertue can correct it .  Mean time Philargus take the word of Philocles ,  That though there be no happiness on earth  I can esteem above Philargus friendship ,  But fair Eudyna's love , which onely is  The treasure I can covet from Philargus ;  And cannot look to live but to enjoy it  Rather then justle with his friendship , I  Will die to lose it .  She sinks . Dear Mother , Sister ; bring your aids .  You have done ill Varillus to neglect  A duty of that consequence , that I  Expected in your quick return , was this  A time to loyter ?  T is happy news . But why was I delay'd  In this accompt ? was it too precious for me ?  Redeem your fault by some insuing service ,  Or you may lose a master , that has lov'd you .  I must proceed to gain Eudinas love  From my Philargus or l loose my self .  And gaining it , I must forgo Philargus ,  And equally be lost . O sister , welcome .  I must request your aid .  I would intreat you be my advocate  In love unto Eudina . — O , but hold ,  Shall I be treacherous unto my brother ?  A brother ! What 's a brother ? A meer name ;  A title which we give to those that lodg'd  In the same womb ; so bedfellowes are brothers ;  So men , inhabiting one town , or countrey  Are brothers too : for though the place containing  Be greater , the relation is the same .  A friend ! I that 's the thing I violate ,  Then which , nor earth nor heaven hath ought more sacred ,  T is my Philargus , nay my self I injure ,  If I content my self .  Fond reason I disclaim thee ,  Love is a strain beyond thee , and approaches  The Gods estate : Friendship 's a moral vertue  Fitter for disputation , then observance .  Eudina . O Eudina ! In what price  Art thou with me , for whom I cast away  The Souls whole treasury Reason and Vertue ?  Placilla , you must wo Eudina for me .  Do you startle at it ? Pray do 't , as you love me .  I charge you by this kiss . —  What troubles you Placilla ? O you are  Already entertain'd to mediate  For him you better love , Philargus , do :  He best deserves her ; I le wo for him too .  I meet that wish with swift , but fearful feet .  My joyes are bitter , and my woes are sweet .  O , you are partial .  Philargus , let me go . 'T is your advantage .  No other but my self .  Honour'd Eudyna : For , who feeds to danger  Upon a dish he loves , ought not to blame  The meat , but his unbridled appetite .  It is no jealousy  Onely a fear Philargus had broke friendship :  So , my souls better part exited , left  The other languishing .  To say I love you , Madam , with a zeal  That dares to meet the tryal of Martyrdom ,  And suffer 't for your sake , might get a name ,  A glorious one , and an immortal Crown :  Yet so I should forgo ( in leaving you  On earth , a heaven on it ) the bliss ,  Which , grieving , I should in Elisium miss .  No , I will love you better then to die ,  And be mine own chief mourner ; yet must crave ,  Under your gracious favour , leave to suffer  More then a thousand deaths , that is , to live  And part with my fair hopes in you for ever .  Princely Madam ,  Consider the necessity , which now  By further search I gather from the hidden  Oraculous perduit ; by which I am tied  Not to contend for you , that is , I must not  Wound friendship in Philargus : But pursue  My fortune , which is to gain love from you .  For whom it sayes not , but the meanings plain ,  I for Philargus should your love obtain .  The Gods deal after as they please with me ,  My sute is that you take Philargus .  This now ,  And with Philargus friendship were to me  A fortune 'bove the envy of the Gods .  I must not hold you then .  His title , as his friendship precedes mine .  And will be .  Me thinks you are sad and troubled sister .  Why thus alone ? Or have you entertain'd  That troublesome companion , Love ? Come tell me  I can advise you very learnedly :  For Cupids Scholars are more exquisite  In giving councel then in using it .  Why are you sad .  Thou art onely happy ,  Whose sorrow is but outward , as a stranger  Call'd to be present at a funeral  Clads himself like the rest , is serious ,  And silent with a countenance dejected ,  And Testudineous pace ; but has not tears ,  No groanings for a loss to him unknown :  The Obsequies performed uncloaths himself  Of griefe and weeds together . But my sister ,  You are not pleas'd to talk upon this subject .  Where is the Princess ?  With friendly Courtesies ?  Ha , ha , ha .  That 's soon done .  In Philocles his absence ,  As I am in his . That was his meaning sister .  Away , your fear has made you idle .  I le seek him out .  By whom were you imploy'd ?  My brother write . Ha! Are we at such distance ?  Thou art no Prophetess , Placilla , art thou ?  O Gods and men ! where shall we go to find  Friendship and truth ? Bee 't so : For in th' event  We may be happy both : But with this ods ;  One with Eudina , tother with the Gods .  He hath prevented me in hast : In death  I shall prevent his happily expected  Labour and toy'l , who for no other end  Am here arriv'd but to be sacrific'd  For expiation of his discontent .  My cure is onely how my breast may swallow  His point , without revealing mine intent .  Philargus . What! so quick ,  That should be my demand   Not I Philargus .  I came to make experiment of none  But what consists in suffring .  My self  If you deny me that last friendly office .  By the same Beauty  ( Then which no greater subject of an oath )  I swear to be your nuptialls sacrifice ,  Be you the Priest . I 'le suffer without noise  In my displayed bowels you shall read  An augury of bliss unto you both .  I 'le mock no more . Adieu .  Was then your challenge but to try me onely ?  Then are we both ensnar'd by treachery .  And me . Villane , what art thou ?  Unworthy on thy face to bear mans ensign .  Who has subborn'd thee ? See t is Stratocles man .  How can she  So fall into his power .  That charms our ready hands and steel . Speak quickly .  We must not trust him ,  He may have laid an Ambuscado for us .  What means the villan now .  She must outlive thy Lust and the false Traytor   And that this shame  May guard you innocent of future blame .  Brother , and friend , I 'm deaf to all deswasion .  I charge you by Eudina's love , our friendship ,  And ( if there be ) ought that you hold more sacred ,  Move not to alter my fix'd resolution .  Travel 's my design .  Eudina must be yours . She is a bliss  Which heaven created for you .  Add to it this ,  Their sentence is erroneous , that deny  Partition to the soul : For ours do witness ,  Friendship can give her a division ,  And make reciprocal community  Of all her faculties . But still Eudyna  Is indivisible . Why name I her ,  Whom to forget must be my onely tasque ?  Brother adieu .  I fear we are prevented .  Uncle , you saw withal the great destraction  We left the Princess in . How when she look'd  Upon Philargus , she inclin'd to him ;  And when on me to me ; when on us both  How extasied she fell !  I upon Philargus .  Uncle , you know  To be both there , is neither to be there ,  But to breed more perplexity in Eudyna .  Pray take Philargus .  not in mine ears .  Stratocles can gain nothing by my abscence ,  While her Philargus stayes .  See here I have it brother . And yours is love .  My love be prosperous to you . My horse , my horse .  In the first place then bring  A parting cup , that by the grapes Elizar  As Jove by Acheron , I may protest  My constancy and zeal unto my purpose .  I do obey my Lot . And noblest brother .  Be you as free in love , as I from envy .  Variety of objects  Like Nails abandon one a nother . So  May I , by novelties of Travail , lose  The thought of Love ; and chearfully return  Both hers and yours in a more just relation .  Give me the bowl . Now brother to that love  You owe the fair Eudina , unto which  I give th' addition of mine own , and all  The joves that ere I wish'd my self and her ,  And to that friendship , which nor Time , nor absence  Shall ever end or alter .  With this embrace my brother , and my last  Of present ceremony , I now wish you  In th' arms of your Eudina —  And may my better part of soul , which now  I leave in trust with you , by you be breath'd  Into her breast ; that she may lively find  She has my love in yours ; and that in you  She has us both .  How is it with you brother ?  Too soon I fear .  Philargus ! Brother ! Friend ! Ye Gods , how comes this ?  Gone , past recovery , but he shall not pass  Without my company .  O that the world  Might be so happy !  I beseech  Under your highness Pardon , yet , a respite .  My brothers blood cries in me for your justice  Which must be executed on his murderer  Before I safely can , or dare possess  His interest in the faith of fair Eudina .  I adjudge him  To sharp but lingring tortures ( for his death  Alone can yeeld no satisfaction )  Tortures that may draw in , by his confession ,  As accessaries with him , all the homicides  That are i' th' Kingdom .  Nor can I think his onely brain and hands  Compos'd the poyson .  If you be serious , Mother , hold us not  In this suspence .  Ha! Philargus .  Or but the shade ; the spirit of my friend .  To me my beauteous spouse  Thou art as Juno to her Jupiter ,  Sister and wife .  Eudina does so : me in a dear sister .  She has done that too : For now indeed w' are brothers  