 A Paris ill ya ben veni - Here 's no bush at this door , but good wine rides post upon 't , I mean , the sign-post . Boy , get you down , and if Nick Rooksbill , or any of his company ask for me , bring 'em up , d' ye hear .  Lead you brother ? men use to be led from Tavernes sometimes . You saw I did not lead you nor bring you to any that was more a Tavern then the last , nor so much neither ; for here is no Bush you saw .  Pray let us drink first brother . By your leave here 's to you .  Indeed brother , there is too much abuse made of such good creatures . Wine in it self is good , you will grant , though the excesse be nought ; and Tavernes are not contemptible , so the company be good .  This is their way of loving enemies , to bear 'em into goodnesse . Well , brother , I may meet with him again , and then I know what to do . If he knew him as I do now , what a religious combate were here like to be at Nicks coming .  Sir , here 's a Gentlewoman asks for Mr. Rooksbill .  The travell'd Gallant , is 't not .  Say he is here by all meanes , and bring 'em up .  No harme assure your selfe , cannot we govern ourselves ?  I am amaz'd sure , I have seen this face , howe're your habit and the course of time may give 't another seeming .  Do you turn away ?  Come hither you . I 'le make a little bold with you . Thou that hast been a concealer of more sins in womens actions , then thou hast grizled hairs .  Reveale a truth to me on my demand , now instanrly , without premeditation . I 'le cut thy tongue out else .  I think thou art as true a servant of his as any Bawd can be . But he now if thou darest . How long have you known that Gentlewoman ? and what do you know by her ?  Was she so resolutely bent , and so soon altered ?  What man was that ?  'T is she , and 't is most wonderful .  Alas , poor Howlet .  Well leave thy hooting , Madge , and hold thy peace . thou shalt get by it .  Speak to her , brother , 't is our Cousin Dorcas .  And will not you give her leave to be found again ? his wine and her sudden apprehension works on him at once . Cousin , I 'le speak to you , though I confesse the miracle of our meeting thus amazes me .  All shall be well , good Cousin , you shall have both hands and hearts to re-estate you in him . So that in fact you have not wrong'd that honour , since he forsook you .  Infants then shall be pardoned . Brother speak .  I hope it will work out his superfluous zeale .  And render him civil Christian again .  His purity and your disgrace fell on you both about a time , I faith .  Of the same we had , sir .  Yes , yes , we 'll all drink for the good o' th' house .  'T is upon putting down , they say , and more o' th neighbours . But Cousin , he knew you not to day .  And the old one knowes nothing , does she .  She can bewray nothing then . My brother knows not him . I only do for his faire Sisters sake , of which you may hear more hereafter ; in the mean , bear your selfe faire and free , as if you knew him not , and I 'le work him to your end , never fear it .  Well-said , give it to my brother . Drink to our Cousin , Brother .  'T will work , anon , I hope .  You Jade you , hold your tongue .  I pray dissemble your passion .  How long have you had acquaintance with her , Nick ?  'T will out too soon . Why Nick , thou knowest these kinde of creatures call and are called Cousins commonly .  This vvill spoil all . Brother , I pray forbear .  Pray , brother , be perswaded .  You sir , put up your Steel-stick .  Yes marry is he , sir .  Yes , and are brothers a little disguiz'd , but for some ends .  Meer Intelligencers , to collect up such and such observations , for a great Separatist that is now writing a book against playing at Barlibreak , moulding of Cocklebread , and such like prophane exercises .  O , most notorious ones , and are as equally disguiz'd to be as rank Spies as the other . S'lid man , and they should be taken for such as they are , they would be cut off presently . They came in this  mad humour to be merry with you for my sake .  You must do as they do then , or they will think you are a Spie upon them .  More wine , Boy , and bid 'em all come in .  Fear nothing , Cousin , it shall be for his good and yours , as I will order it .  All welcome , not any repetition , but begin a new   Well said civil Roarer .  Do not crosse him again . If thou doest , and I do not maul thee . Yes , brother , these are vertuous  men howe're they seeeme .  I 'le stop your mouth , you said you came to be merry .  I now he 's in . Play Fidlers . Dance .  All bravely performed , admirably well done , &c.   Thou little dapper thing , thou , hold thy peace .  He has as brave a warlike spirit , man , before his precise humour tainted it , as ever breath'd in Hector .  I hope , 't is done already .  It is my father .  Fear nothing , veile your face a little ; Who is with him ?  Admirable honest fellow .  Sir , the company . —  An 't please you , Sir .  He is not here , sir .  I 'le warrant you , I 'le find him yet to night , sir . Pray Gentlemen pay you the Reckoning , I 'le wait upon my father home .  Because sir , it grows dark , and 't is the worst way as it is about the town ; so many odde holes a man may slip into ; pray take me with you , sir .  There was no way to get this money , and be rid of him , but to offer him my service He would have driven me out before him else . But come , let 's see my brother that went to sleep in so warlike a Passion . I hope he 'll wake in a better .  Sir , — Sir . —  The sense of your late displeasure , sir , has so humbled me into the knowledge of my self , that on the wings of true obedience , I flew after you to make a childes submission at your feet , to crave your pardon for my riotous transgression , and to ask your blessing .  Pray sir , bestow it really upon me .  To shew my readinesse to reform my life , sir . And yet a willingnesse withal to live , as well , as civilly , in which I am in all humility to preferre a suit to you . You know , sir , I am but a younger brother .  Here is a widow , sir , a Gentlewoman of great estate , and of a well-known life . Antient she is , and has had husbands . How many ?  Foure sir , I would not lie . Of which the worst spoke well of her on 's death-bed .  I have all wo'd and wonne her , sir , and crave but your good-will to marry her . I have brought a Church-man and a Kinsman to give her .  If he does grant it , 't is the first request that e're he granted in his life . Sure the old Match-maker the devil thinks I am in earnest to marry this beast . And puts a readinesse in his hand to forward it .  Better then many men love their wives , I am perswaded .  A man goes certainest on his journey so , sir , and lesse trouble it is you know to go in at a great gate , then a narrow wicket .  I 'le face it as far as I dare . I hope I shall have the grace to pull my hand from the book when it comes so far .  Now Tonie , she 's thine own , Now Sister Kate ;  he 's thine . The Priest has pronounc't it . I say , Amen to 't . And heaven give you joy .  You 'll finde him of another minde towards me , and force me into wedlock presently .  What you shall never know , Sister , I hope .  I cannot do 't for all the wealth in the world .  Kisse a Maid I never saw above twice in my life .  Yes , twenty times , sir , and not kisse her , or if once , not above , sir .  Widow , will you give me leave to obey my father ?  I 'le only gratifie the Minister .  There 's for your paines , sir . Madge , there 's for you . Enough to purchase thee a Licence to sell Ale , Tobaccho , and Strong-water again in Godpiece-Rowe , for here will be no dwelling for thee , I see that .  Now , brother Anthonie , go you all back to the company we left , and see that my Instructions be followed  concerning my brother Gabriel , Nick , and his Dammie ,  Yes , but you shall follow him presently , trust to me Sister . Go , take no leave of 'em . I 'le bring 'em upon you presently .  Yes , to my grief , sir , praying you may have patience .  Pray bear it as you may , sir I left him in an heavy plight . And let me speak it with sorrow , he lay speechlesse .  He 's well attended , sir , and look't unto . Nor would I wish you see his weak estate .  It can but grieve you , sir , my wife and sister , together with my self , will go . Or if  It please my father Rooksbill here , because his power in this quarter is available .  Nay , pray sir .  Well , I 'le bring you to him , sir .  I 'le tell thee as we go . Kisse .  Pray sit , attend , you will be pleased anon .  Part faire on all sides , Gentlemen .  You shall receive no harm , sir Lay by your Armes my Masters . I bring none but friends .  I 'le make him friends with thee . Go and dispatch within .  And shall returne him instantly your comfort .  Attend the event .  They were but us'd as properties to give new motion to his mortified condition .  They shall yield up their weapons . So do you .  Yes sir , you shall .  Say they shall have faire welcom , What are they married ?  'T is well . Now sir , let me entreat your favour .  'T is my first suit to you since I was your son ,  That before others entrances distract our troubled  Scoene , these may be reconcil'd .  Yes , and has now made ample recompence .  But for a shift sir , now you know my aim .  That 's done on me already , sir . 