 I cannot help it .  While I went forth for the half pint of Sack  To make your prodigal posset ; and the maid  ( Watching the Milk , for running ore ) forgot  To shut the door , they all rush'd in .  Vizarded people , Sir , and odly shap'd .  You 'l see anon . Their tuning o' their pipes ,  And swear they 'll gi'ye a willy nilly dance  Before you go to bed , tho'you stole your Marriage .  T is like to be mad counsel .  T is too late now , & yet he 'l do 't to morrow ! good !  The devil o'maid's i' but my fellow Madg the Kitching maid , and Malkin the Cat , or batchelor but my self , and an old Fox , that my master has kept a prentiship to palliate his palsie .  Shee means the eyes in 's head , I le hang else .  My Master is like to make a blind match here .  Sir , her 's a letter thrown into the entry .  Not 1.  I onely found it , Sr.   Good Master .  Nay , I dare take your word for that : you 'l keep  All moneys fast enough whose ere it be ,  If you but gripe it once .  That cursed Mistris that ever she came here !  If I know of her flight , Sir , may these hands  Never be held up , but to curse you onely ,  If you cashier me thus : because you have lost  your wife before she was well found , must we  Poor innocents be guilty ?  Mad . O , you are a cruel Master .  This is a language that I have not heard .  You understand it , Gentlemen .  Your friend and Jonathan Buzzard kind gentlemen .  Just Sir , as I was going I know not whither :  And now I am arrived at just I know not where . T is a  rich room , this . Is it not Goldsmiths hall .  And truly ti 's the best chear that ere I tasted .  — And truly this was better then the first .  — And truly , so it is — how many sorts of wine  May a vintner bring in one pot together ?  Bacchus ! whos 's that I pray ?  I was never in all my life so far in a tavern before .  What comforts have I lost .  Nor ever was in all my two and twenty years under that Babilonian Tyrant Quicksands , so far as a Vintners bar but thrice .  Truly but thrice Sir . And the first time was to fetch a jill of sack for my Master , to make a friend of his drink , that joyned with him in a purchase of sixteen thousand pound .  The second time was for a penny pot of Muscadine , which he drank all himself with an egge upon his wedding morning .  The third and last time was for half a pint of sack upon his wedding night , of later memory ; and I shall nere forget it , that riotous wedding night : when Hell broke loose , and all the devils danced at our house , which made my Master mad , whose raving made my mistriss run away , whose running away was the cause of my turning away . O me , poor masterless wretch that I am . — O —  I thank you . Let it come Sir , ha , ha , ha .  And you are all my friends kind gentlemen , I found it before in your money when my Master ( whose confusion I have drunk ) took your Mortgages ; And now I find it in your wine . I thank you kind gentlemen still . O how I love kind Gentlemen .  Yes friend — Shall I call you friend ?  Why then , all friends , I am a gentleman , though spoild i' the breeding . The Buzzards are all gentlemen ,  We came in with the Conqueror . Our name ( as the French has it ) is Beau desert ; which signifies — Friends , what does it signifie ?  Ha , ha , ha . I le pledge that : and then I le tell you a secret .  I will friend . And tother two friends , here 's upon the same .  This was an excellent draught .  It might prove a shrew'd matter against my mischevious Master as it may be handled .  Heark you then all friends . Shall I out with it ?  I le first take tother cup , and then out with 't altogether — And now it comes — If my Mistress do bring him home a bastard , she 's but even with him .  That he has by this most delicate drink . But it is the Arsivarsiest Aufe that ever crept into the world . Sure some Goblin got it for him ; or chang'd it in the neast , that 's certain .  It has gone for a boy in short coats and long coats this seaven and twenty years .  Yes : A very natural ; and goes a thissen ; and looks as old as I do too . And I think if my beard were off , I could be like him : I have taken great pains to practise his speech and action to make my self merry with him in the countrey .  In the further side of Norfolk , where you must never see him . T is now a dozen years since his father saw him , and then he compounded for a sum of mony with an old man , one Hulverhead , to keep him for his life time ; and he never to hear of him . But I saw him within these three moneths . We hearken after him , as land-sick heirs do after their fathers , in hope to hear of his end at last .  My beard , friend , no : My beard 's my honour .  Hair is an ornament of honour upon man or woman .  Hey ho . I am very sleepy .  Down , Plumpton-parke , &c.   O brave , o brave .  Hack ye there , hack ye there ,  O brave pipes . Hack ye there .  Hay toodle loodle loodle loo .  Hay toodle loodle loodle loo .  Ha , ha , ha — with a Hay toodle loodle loodle loo .  With a hay toodle loodle loodle loo , &c.   Hay toodle loodle , &c.   Hay toodle loodle , &c.   Hay toodle , loodle , loodle , &c.   Hay toodle loodle , &c.   Hay toodle loodle , &c.   Hay toodle loodle , &c.   Upon all my knees . A — ah . Hay toodle loodle .  Hay toodle loodle , &c.   I fear we shall be smoak'd then .  I fear we shall be whipt for counterfeits ;  My long coats have a grudging of the lash .  Then I le bear up again —  Hay diddy daddy , come play with the Baby  Dindle dandle on thy knee , and give him a penny ,  And a new coat , o ho —  O Master , Master , Master . Your servant and no bastard ,  Nor father of your Ideot in Norfolk ,  He 's there , and well Sir , I heard lately of him .  How could you turn me away so ? 