 Hence you Muskitta . Give a look more this way  I 'le force thee take thy wings out at the window .  Hold your peace ;  And vent not here your lowd Rodomontadoes  Lest I spit lightning .  Why was the sum , then , of two thousand duccats  Proclaim'd the price of your virginity ?  I find the noble Lady ; nor can I  Further attempt a breach upon your honor .  You favours make me bold .  I 'le drinke a frolick Lady ;  Mirth and good wine take me : My loose desire  Is to chast love refin'd by Vesta's fire .  By your leave Lady , I come not a pure Sutor  ( VVith studyed Oratory ; nor addresse a Sonnet ,  Or trifling Love-toyes to perswade admittance  By slow degrees into your inmost favour )  But a rich purchacer , that brings , at once ,  The golden Summe , and Price of your enjoying .  Here precious Beauty , made by this more precious !  Take your full due , and render readily  The full tuition of my wealthy purchace .  Ha! why this delay ?  Let not the glorious sight of this amaze you ,  Though it be granted , sodaine apprehension  Of such bright blessings may transport a soule  Into high raptures , when it is considerd ,  The Ornament of youth , the strength of age ,  Lifes great maintainer , Lady , let not this  At all transmute you . For I 'le bring supplies  That shall so frequently acquaint you with  Such sights as these , that you shall grow regardlesse  Even of the care to keepe them , in respect  Of the delicious pleasure brings them in :  Delay not therefore that high purchac'd pleasure ,  That brings this to you , by a Minutes losse  To make it fully yours .  How 's this ?  Nay then you dally with me , and I must  Deale plaine and briefly with you . Here 's the price ,  And either render me my just demand ,  Or I shall take for your disgrace an order  Shall spue you forth the City .  Your answer Gentlewoman .  What may this meane ?  What meane you Lady ?  Pray rise and speak your story : yet I tell you ,  I hold it very strange , that so much money  And such a one as I ( none of th' unhandsomst )  Should not goe down with a young wench , and one  Of the profession you pretend to be of  Before cold Iron ! Me thinks most unnaturall .  Thinke better yet before you utter further .  Well , well , on then .  Why tooke you this deceiving habit then ?  VVhat in this habit , as a Curtezan ?  But should hee finde you here , what were his censure ?  This sounds yet well .  Take you to wife ?  T is done , and I am he that does it .  I am he too Lady — Looke well upon me  That in this shift , reducing of my beard ,  VVith this supply of money came to try you ,  I finde you noble , and above it , honest .  O say not so sweete Lady , I 'le redeeme it .  I tell thee I am he , and here already ,  I am Swatzenberg .  I tell thee I am he ; 't was I that chac'd  The Spaniard hence .  I 'le stand the hazard .  Was oder wer bistu ? Bistu ein Deutscher ? Sag mihr in was ort Du gelebst hast ?  Ich denke du bist ein heuchler ; bistu aber ein Deutscher so anwort mihr in deutscher sprach .  Thou son of impudence , and imposture , speake ;  What is thy end in this ?  Precious counterfeit !  But I am weaponlesse , and must fetch strength  Of officers to right me .  I care not honest fellow , where 's thy Mistris ?  Good Angells guard me .  And this is my Abuser .  Yes , and will still mayntain't , for violence  He offerd to that noble vertuous Lady .  The same man I . He has not left the house  Since my abuse ; I feare to her much wrong :  For he is some disguis'd Knave on my life .  Hee could not weare those Cloathes and speake no Dutch else .  You have it freely Lady . 