 Go Souldiers , better never stood the shock  Of danger , or made good their Countreys cause .  Drink this to the Kings health and victory .  My duty Madam .  Let me now speak , I may not hear these wonders bounc'd ,  Reconcile all quickly ,  Or you had better never have been born ,  Then disobey my last command , which was  Never to see the Court till I induc'd you .  Do you stare at me ?  No more , I le talk with you anon .  Has the air of Court infected you already ?  Has the Kings kisses mov'd by adulterate heat ,  Swoln you into a stubborn loathsomness  Of wholsom Counsel ? Come your wayes ; I le try  If Countrey-Air and Diet can restore you  To your forgotten modestie and Duty .  Do you capitulate ?  But so much satisfaction as may make  Thee sensible of shame , I will afford thee :  Didst thou not after Banquet , when the King  Heated with wine , and lust rais'd in his eyes ,  Had kiss'd thee once , twice , thrice , though I look'd on ,  And all the Presence whispered their cold fears  Of the Kings wantonness and the Queens abuse ;  Didst thou not then still gaze upon his Face ,  As thou hadst long'd for more ? O impudence !  I am amaz'd .  And should he more then kiss , still more Honour'd ?  Durst thou argue thus ?  She 's wonderously well read in Court alreadie :  VVho i' th' Devils name has been her Lecturer ?  Insufferable Baggage . !  Dar'st thou call any thing in thee Desert ?  Or mention those base Favours which the King  Maintains his Lust by , with those real Honours  Confer'd on me , who have preserv'd his life ?  Is it such Dignity to be a VVhore ?  Dar'st thou talk thus to me ?  The King dares not  Maintain it .  As I live she 's mad . Do you dream of being a Queen ?  How she flies up with the conceit ? d' yee hear ?  She has swallowed an Ambition  That will burst her : I 'll let the humour forth .  Though all Posterity should perish by it .  Impudent Harlot ! she has heard me value  This Jewel , which I wear for her dead Mother ,  I would not part with , whilst I wore my Head ;  And now she threatens that : a Kingdom shall not save thy life .  Were it a Church , and this unhallowed Room  Sanctum Sanctorum , I will bring you to your knees ,  And make me such a Recantation  As never follow'd Disobedience ;  I 'll take thy life else , and immediately .  'T is Sforza is betray'd .  Let me but speak ; I hope your Majesty —  VVas ever man so hurried into thraldom ,  And lock'd up in the ignorance of the cause ,  Stronger and darker than his Prison walls ?  But I must not be Sepulchr'd alive ,  And therefore Keeper , though thy office be  More Devillish than thy visage , yet thy heart  May be humane : let me then conjure thee  To vent the secret forth but in a whisper ;  Or shouldst thou utter 't in a Tempests voyce ,  As loud as are my injuries , thou art safe :  I can be here no carry-Tale : I am fast  In thine own custody , thou seest :  I pray thee tell me , what 's laid unto my charge ?  Do you barke Sentences , Hell-hound ?  'T is true .  I will not lift a finger up against thee ,  As I am a Souldier : now prithee tell me ,  VVhat say they is my crime ?  [ shakes his head ]  nay speak it freely .  I can give it hearing :  Or tell me first if thou wilt , how fares the Queen ?  VVhat ? art thou dumb to that too ? Answer me ,  Is my Antagonist Petruccio  Repeal'd to Court yet ? thence may spring my mischief .  VVhy dost not speak ? this is dogged silence ,  In scorn of me , to mock my misery .  I may not wrong the Honour of a Souldier  In my Revenge , or I would thrattle thee .  You 're very civil , Hell take your courtesie .  It is decreed of me , that I must suffer  This Barbarous crueltie ; and I le bravely bear it :  I ha' not force these double walls to part ,  Or mollifie the Jaylors harder heart .  May spirit then assist me to despise  And bear my scorn above my injuries .  Have I then liv'd to hear Mans voice again ?  Those Titles once were mine , but now I must  Attend his pleasure that is Master of them .  My first object from my long obscurity ,  The man that hates me most of all the world ?  It is : his news cannot be good . not good ?  The better : 't is best to know the worst ; he cannot deceive me .  The Court yields me such Complement ; this has  No ampler Comforts in 't . But y' are deceiv'd ,  For you are welcom , sowre captious Lord , y' are welcom .  Because ( love me or love me not ) you speak .  I have been here these two and twenty dayes ,  And never heard the voice of Man till now :  Meat I have found , and Lodging ; but for Language ,  In what part of the world I am , I know not .  Proceed ; I value your words well , you see ,  That give you six for one ; why do you not speak ?  I have been us'd to talk with men that love me not ,  And more with Enemies , I dare be sworn ,  Then Friends : come , speak , I pray , what is 't you come for ?  Will you not speak and tell me ?  E'er since I was committed , and from the knowledge  Of vvhy I vvas committed too ; nay , he that keeps me ,  'Till now he call'd me forth , never spake a vvord :  If I ask'd him , what News ? here he vvas vvith me :  Or when he heard from Court ? then there again :  Or , why I vvas committed ? still the same answer .  So that I could inform my self of nothing .  Come , if thou bee'st an honest Enemy ,  Tell me something :  As thou dost wish my throat cut , tell me something .  Further than this I cannot : 'T was the Kings pleasure to command it .  Treason was cry'd ; a Guard : away with him :  But for what cause , unless it were for drawing  My sword upon ( O that Rebellions Girle ! )  To save her from the danger of his lust ,  ( VVhich I tell you I was doubtful of ) and so Sir ,  Let me ask you , is she still about the Queen ? ( Queen .  My daughter Sir , I mean .  And the Queen loves her ?  Nay if you be a Souldier , now speak truely .  Then there 's some hope ,  The King yet keepes fair quarter with her .  VVomen are quickly jealous .  You have engag'd me .  Come Sir , your Articles ?  Who 's my Accuser ?  Umh , umh , umh : he should not be my Judge then .  It is some Devillish dream of his , or else  That Policie that Princes purchase Hell by ,  With strong assurance without all exception ;  That is , when Souldiers men of best desert  Have merited more then they have means to give ,  To cut their lives by whom they onely live .  I am not guiltie , as I am a Souldier ;  And in that Oath I would not be forsworn ,  To save as many lives , were they within me ,  As perish'd by my Sword to save his One .  I will do what I can .  Hah !  No Sir , nor dares there be  Such a suggestion in the heart of Hell .  And were he there , that thought , or could but dream  Of such a Scandal , I 'ld squeeze it out on 's Brains .  A wrestling towards ; away west , away .  Nay then I am betray'd .  He comes but to insult and to torment me .  Passion of heart ! he hopes not for Salvation  That hears with patience but the repetition  Of such a Blasphemie . I must not die ,  Until the world be vindicated from  The redamnation such an error threatens .  Do you come to mad me ?  As setled as a Rock beneath a mountain  Here will I sit , and hear thy loudest malice .  Now tell me what you come for ; and be sure  You ask no more abominable questions ,  VVhilst calmly I clear these , thus : By the Honour  And faith of a true Souldier , I am clear  Of these suggested crimes , which before Heaven  ( Which knows my Innocencie ) I do not urge  To save my life from the Kings violent Fury ,  Nor any way to close with thee in Friendship ,  Now that my fortune is at worst . So , speak :  'T is long a coming : I begin to think  It is some good , you are so loath to utter 't .  Foh ! this is worse than all the rest , this stinks  Of the Court-putrefaction , Flatterie , grossly .  But on I prithee : talk is such a noveltie ,  I will hear any thing .  So , so : umh , whu : so much for my vertues :  What 's your business now ?  Has denyed him  Something I warrant , that he would have begg'd ;  The making of a Knight , or some such foolerie :  What was 't ?  Is the great Marshals and chief Generals  Office , become so base ?  A prayer or two , by his great leave and yours ,  And you shall have it instantly .  This is a nobleness beyond Example :  Sure now you are honest .  I hold my Honour equal to the best ,  And prize it still so far above my life ,  That to save Kingdoms I le not forfeit it .  Here in the sight of Heaven I do engage it ,  For your securitie .  VVars Sword , Laws Axe , or Tyrannies fell Knife ,  May overcome my Person , not my life .  For that is yours Petruccio .  They are all too weak to charm a Devil Sir ;  But me they may , your Friend .  Give me your hand my Lord ,  The king will say so , if this be flesh and blood .  May you be pleas'd Sir then to let the cause  In which your injur'd Queen , your Son and I ,  And truth it self have suffered , be review'd ?  The mischievous creature that was drunk , now 's mad  With brain-confounding strong Ambition :  She whom your ill-plac'd love Grac'd as a wife ,  Whom now I am not fond of to call Daughter ,  It seems is past Examination .  But let those Hell-bred witnesses be call'd ,  And re-examined .  'T is indeed worthy a Kings regard : you see your way .  My Lord , the King is sad , what shall we do ?  Are you so tart Court Blain-worm ?  If she awake to vertue , she is welcome ,  Into the the world again : but if she rise  With an Ambitious thought of what she was  Or meet the light with a presumptuous look :  That renders her in thought but worthy of it :  By this bless'd presence I will yet take leave .  To sink her under earth immediatly .  What a rich sound were this now , were it reall !  It is Heavens goodness to your Grace then Madam .  The more to vindicate your injur'd vertue .  And manifest your merits to the world ,  Thou art mine own again Alinda .  So thou art mine for ever .  Sir , I have won :  My wrongs are drown'd in her conversion . 