 Up and ready too sir .  See shee 's here sir .  Now or never helpe me !  What! would you disobey your Father ? what !  So good , so carefull , and so wise a Parent ?  Yes , at sixteene ; you would die at sixteene ?  O Cupid what a Termagant tyrant art thou  Over poore subjects of sixteene ! There is not one  Among a hundred of those ticklish Trifles  But is more taken with a Toy at sixteene  Then six and twenty : because by that time  The edges of most maydenheads are allayd .  What to prevent your Father , my good Master ?  Thinke you I can turne traytor to his trust ,  And crosse his purpose for your Marriage ?  Yes , you were best leape from the top o' th' house  Into the Cavail grande : and there perhaps  Some courteous Gondaliar may catch you up ,  And waft you to some house of deare delight .  You see the doore is shut ,  And Go-by-ground your fathers Giant here  More sterne then Cerberus holds fast the Key ,  You can make no excursion ; nor let in  Any attempt for your redemption :  No Letter or a Message can approach you ,  But by this Gyant-dwarfe your Fathers Agent ,  Though I my selfe were wicked to assist you .  Dissemble patience as you are a woman ,  Or hope to be ; and heare him handsomely .  That was well said .  VVill you marre all ? the reason ?  Very good !  I have heard of this rare Pedler-woman ;  And that shee is much us'd in close affaires  Twixt parties Hee and Shee ; and doe not doubt  Since you make golden offers ( gentle Mistresse )  To worke her to your ends , as neare ( d ee marke ? )  As womans wit may reach at such a pinch ,  Pray let her come .  Now Mistris if I chance to set the sadle  On the right horse ; that is , to place your Mayden-head  VVhere you would faine bestow it , I trust you will  Out of your store reward me with a dowry  Fit to convey me to a Tradesmans Bed .  Well , be chearfull then ,  And cleare those cloudy looks , awake your senses ,  Refresh your temples , rowse invention up .  I have found ground to build on ; but there lacks  Much rewing , squaring , joynting , to make sure ,  Against all stormes , our lofty Archi'ture ,  Come up to councell ?  IF this move him not , nay prevaile not with him  To the accomplishment of your desire ,  Would I were a man , both for your sake and his .  First take away the cause  Of your Greene-sicknesse by killing him ; then  Cure you my selfe .  I , if I were a Man and able to doe what I  Now desire ( for I would have mine own desire still )  I would doe wonders indeed . Believe it Mistris ,  An able man that has but a weake womans desire  Has an unknown thing ; and may doe any unknowne thing , for ought I know —  Heare it then ,  As your own Act and Deed , and quickly signe it .  That 's in the Postscript , marke ,  The last minute that I will expect you shall be three in the morning , when from the back Window I will either fall into your Armes , or on my Death .  If we cannot win her to 't , t is but a Letter lost ,  How doe they , that have whole pockets full of 'hem  In readinesse to borrow money ?  Why I doe not thinke there 's any of 'hem within hearing .  Fear it not Mistris , she is as sure at such a lift —  And so shee 's come already .  Mistris , shee 's for our turne I warrant you  I finde it by her aptnes to abuse him .  I hope you will not offer it .  Even cry out right perhaps .  Pray peace .  Pray Mistris see 'hem ! Open your Box I pray .  What a scorne 's this ! This Bawd nere scapes alive  Out of these doors . Pray what 's ' your other present ?  It is exceeding like him ! what 's the plot troe ?  Nor threatned these ;  ( Your Rope , here , and the rest ) had she refus'd ,  And to expresse their needlesses the better  I pray returne them to him with great thanks .  Slight what meane you sir ?  Will you hold your peace ?  Will you undoe all now ?  Will you lose all you came for with your clamor ?  Wou'd you could old your peace ;  Whilst I looke down to scape discovery ,  Shee 'l come to her selfe againe , and you too ; feare not  T is but a qualme of kindnes , this .  Shee comes already .  Pray doe you peace . Handle her handsomly ,  And then all shall be well I warrant you ,  You doe not know the danger , noyse and nakednesse  May pull upon you , should the Rogue  Dwarfe overheare you , we were all blowne up ,  Which to prevent , all husht while I goe down .  Out , out alas my Master in all hast —  It is too late to aske ,  Or now to d'on your Pedlers weeds againe :  Gather 'em up and fly into your closet ,  Dresse him up there . Stay not to look about ye .  Exit Fra. Fla.    I 'le doe my best to keepe him back a little .  Above sir , busy with the daintiest things ,  That er'e allur'd a virgin into wedlock .  Out with your purse sir , for you cannot see 'hem ,  But they will ravish you to large expence :  Besides sir , 't will be fit you give her something ,  Coming so jumpe as 't were into the Market .  You shall not need to urge it .  What have you done with him ?  Your Father 's coming up to seek a writing ,  Pray Love it be not there .  Well hold your peace , looke bold and chearfully ,  And be you silent , youth : nor cough , nor stink ;  Nor let your feare run forth in streames of urine  To make him thinke his Aqua vitae spilt .  Why speake you not ?  You were best betray all with your sillinesse .  Here father , here sir ,  You will not I shall answer for you when hee 's here ?  Come , look as nothing were , all will be nought else .  Beare up hee comes .  Alas poore heart ! you know sir , in her infancy ,  You beat her once for losing of a Key :  For which shee trembles still , being ask'd in hast .  Are you a child still in your feares , and must  Be wed to morrow ? Fy , fy upon you ,  Shee thinks shee has lost it , but I saw her look it  Togither with a writing which you dropt  Out of this presse this morning , safe enough  Here in her Cabinet .  Where is your Key of this ? Give mee 't , give mee 't .  How hast and feare perplexes her ! I could  Have pickt it open .  Ay me the fruits of rashnes ? See , t is fallen  With all her Jewells and your writing too  Into the street . O my unlucky hand !  Will you be nimble yet to finde a way  By the back-dore into the Gondalo .  While I lock him and 's man into the street ?  I know their hast will leave the Keyes i' th' dore .  Quickly unpresse him ; and take as much gold  As you can carry , I 'le along w' ye too .  Stay not to think , or thank me for my wit .  Do as you are bidden , and say nothing .  The Chambermayde , a kind of putter forwards ,  Sir , to the businesse .  And if he prove not so , I am like to prove  A good one my selfe , and make him something .  VVhat will you whimper now ? will not marriage  Make you bold , that makes so many impudent ?  Shee was not lost sir ; nor in danger of losing ,  Shee was but mislayd a little , as your VVriting was to day .  Right sir , and did but duty I 'le be sworne . 