 THou hast delivered my Letter ?  Thou should'st ha' told him , I would not be so answer'd .  Then you should ha' told him again , I have taken all the courses I could , or as any Gentleman can to maintaine my selfe like one ; But all my courses are run out , and I have not breath , nor know any ground whereon to begin a new one , unlesse that thing my Unkle sets me  up againe , nor have I any meanes to attaine to that , but by his Mediation .  That was not once a Moneth then , or if it had , what had that been to him ? 't was I that suffer'd , thou shouldst ha' told him , not he .  I that Marrying spoy'ld all .  Pox on 't , let it all goe , let that wretched Unkle goe , and let Saveall goe for a punctuall asse as hee is . I confesse he has by his saving helpe peec'd mee with my Unkle a score of times at least . What had once more been to him ?  I cannot , nor will I trouble my braines to thinke of any , I will rather die here in Ram alley , or walk down to the Temple , and lay my selfe down alive , in the old Synagogue , cross-leg'd among the Monumentall Knights there , till I turne Marble with 'em . Thinke quoth a I what should I think on ?  I ther 's the Devill . I would doe something for her if I knew how . But what have I not done that can be done by a forlorn heire ?  Nothing , nothing . All Projects are confounded .  Hold thy peace . I am casting for something to be done by me , that shall be worth , and cost my life , to shame my Unkle .  I must leave her once thou knowst .  What , quickly , what i st ?  Fy upon 't .  And empt our bones . I ever had enough of one Mistris Variety would destroy me . No Gentlemen can be able to hold it out . They are too weake to make common He whores .  O base Villaine ! No I 'le never fall so deep below a Gentleman , as to be Master of a Baudy-house .  No my first plot shall stand , I will do some notorious death-deserving thing ( though these cloaths goe to th' Hangman for 't , what care I ) in defiance of him that was my Unkle , and his Methodicall , Grave , and Orthographicall speaking friend , Mr. Saveall that cals People Pe-o-ple .  Goe forth —  The miserablest Man on Earth ! in having werried out my worthiest friend , on whom the sum of all my hopes was cast .  He is then inexorable , and I must perish . But did you try him for me this last time ?  But did you urge that pious act of mine Which he once vow'd should never be forgot , Or unrewarded by him ?  I and my Man I 'me sure made four of the stowtest purses fly for 't , that ever set our Country o' the skore : After they had him downe , and their points at his brest and throat , hee crying out for helpe , when I came on by chance at a time too when I was in his displeasure , nay he hated mee a whole yeare together before that , and yet I did it , and more then so —  Nay sweet Mr. Saveall —  Indeed I cry you mercy , pray sir speake .  Poore Rogue ! and he deserv'd it , I 'le be sworne for a Theeves marke that he receiv'd ; a cut o' the Cockscombe that crackt his skull , so that hee could never bear his drinke since , as hee could ha' done before . For sir , as we  came in , I having put by the thrusts of three of 'em , the fourth man with a full blow —  Nay curteous Mr. Saveall .  Sir I will heare you with all due respect .  Yet then I liv'd and could have done till now , meerly by being his Nephew , and suppos'd his heire , had not he married ; but his Marriage turnd the hearts of all believing Citizens from me , where before a Taylor could have made mee run through all the credit i' the Town , When in a sute Clinquant , and Ala-mode They could informe themselves , whose heire I was , But to say truth I vex'd him into Wed-lock , for before he valud not a Wife at a batchelors Button .  Sir , you shall see mee die first , and that instantly ; That you may tell my Uncle I 'le be no more his trouble , or charge , unlesse in charity hee 'l send to bury me .  No Sir , the Divill 's not so great with mee ; but my heart , I feele it ready to breake . My Unkle is no more my Unkle , nor you my friend , all by my own fault , and what should I do here , but in to my Bed , and out o' the World presently . Wat . Wat .  I here Sir !  Lay down my Bed .  Lay down my bed I say . But first unbutton me .  I am , and well resolv'd , I thanke my better Angell .  Alas , how can that be ?  It will be Sir anon , I hope .  Ah! —  Ah! — But good Sir , can this be ?  Your noble friendship hath reviv'd me sir , O run and fetch my cloake .  Tell Phebe I cannot stay to give her any satisfaction now , I must go see my Unkle first .  Sir what do you thinke if I should first according to the reformation of my mind cut off my undecent hair , and change this garish apparrell for a civill well worne Students sute , I can be fitted presently hard by .  I shall be George o' horse-back once more I see . In all humility I thanke you Sir .  Sir , I have learnt now by the inconveniences I have met with , in those extravagant out flights , the better to containe it within the limits of your leave , and faire allowance hereafter .  A man must be so tied now .  I cannot use respect enough Sir .  Madam as you are my gracious Patronesse , and my selfe so all unworthy , my duty checks me in my approach to you .  Shee Kisses like an old mans wife , That is , as a Child late sterv'd at Nurse , sucks a fresh flowing Breast .  'T will lesse become mee to presume good Madam .  Yes Sir , an honest true hearted civill fellow he is , as I have manag'd him , he can say grace now .  Some driblets Sir , My credit has not lately wrong'd me much .  Dos not the World come finely on , Wat , ha ?  And have not wee convenient commings in already , ha !  I need no more insconsing now in Ram-alley , nor the Sanctuary of White-fryers , the Forts of Fullersrents , and Milford-lane , whose walls are dayly batter'd with the curses of bawling creditors . My debts are payd ; and here 's a stock remayning of Gold , pure Gold harke how sweetly it chincks .  For necessaries Wat , for necessaries it shall change , and Ring all out , and 't wil so long as I have an Unkle , and know to mannage him , let money flie ,  I can no faster spend then he supply .  Why pray ?  The fellow 's spoy'ld .  My Unkles house ? my house . Is not the first Mornings draught mine ?  Is not the question first ask'd mee , what will you have to breakfast ? what will please you for Dinner , and what for Supper ? Has not my Unkle let out monies , and taken Bonds and Morgages in my name ? doe not his Tenants crowch to mee , and his servants all call me young Master ? And dos not my Unkle take care to marry mee to ten thousand pound , and a thing like a wife ?  Shee shall lose nothing by 't . I have thought a way to requite her .  I do not like your zealous solicitation , but here 's an order for her , in answer of her Malipert Letter you brought me last night . Give it her , and these five pieces upon condition that shee never come , write , or send to me againe , till I send to her .  Nay look you Wat , you are a little mistaken in me . I must give over whoring , for speciall causes there unto me moving .  I shall stand fairer for her sir , when I leave working but a weeke or two , shall I not ?  Well sir , it may be I will , it may be I wo'nt , what 's that to you ? carry you the Letter , and the Money , and try how that will worke with her .  Her Cozen 's a Cuckold , exclaime and clamorous ! give me my money againe .  The Rogue 's in faction with 'em ; O noble Mr. Saveall , you have most fairely kept your minute with me , I have written my Letter , seald it and all , here to the Widow .  I have written no lesse then six large Epistles this morning , and sent 'em now by my Man to be convey'd into the Country to Lords and Knights , with all the news spirituall , and temporall , forraine and domestick that could possibly fall into a private Gentlemans Collection .  With such dexterity , that if I would make a Trade on 't , I could undoe all the Newes-mongers in Town that live by 't .  When I am once married , and setled , you shall see what an asse 't is , he believes me .  I confesse it is ( by reason of my unwontednesse to it ) some difficulty for me to write to women ; wherefore since you have so nobly undertaken the conveyance of this , let me beseech you to apologize for the rudenes of my stile .  As you may interpret it to her sir .  And then — a ha , Mr. Saveall !  Sir , I am edified .  I dare not tell him now I cannot ; but I wish well for the Monies sake ; and let the Vintners pray , and all the decay'd Sparks about the Towne , whom I will raise out of ashes into flame againe . Let them pray for my good wokes . O my young Lady aunts grave waiting  Woman . If shee were not hers , and out of this house I should take her for a Bawd now . But being hers , and here how much may I mistake ? all flesh is frayle .  And you have brought me , what sweet Mistris Closet ?  One of Robert Greenes workes , or the mad Doctor that preaches boyld in 't I thinke .  That it was sent by her makes it more excellent , whose bounteous care of me , I must acknowledge exceeds all cost in carving to me , and countenancing me at her Table , in gracing me in presence of the Ladies that come to visit her ; in giving charge for decency in all things for my Chamber , my fires shining , my odours burning , my livery serv'd in , my soft and costly bed prepar'd and spread with perfum'd linnen — here 's Ambergreece in this now —  But though shee is my own Unkles wife , I could e'ne say 't is pity a young man had her not .  Shee is a most sweet Lady .  I had rather see your Gibship hang'd up with Polcatts in a Warren , and your sweet Lady with you , though I confesse that were some pitty . I hope her barrennesse , or his will preserve her from my curse .  Excellent ! that 's best of all .  No I protest Nurse , I meant by the broth , the bottome was the best of all .  Cannot all thy art , and her cost finde helpe for my Unkle , think'st thou , to get a child ?  Still thou mistak'st me Nurse .  Nurse as I hope to inherit any thing hereafter —  Nurse , by this good — peece I thinke no harme .  Take it I say . And tell her if thou wilt , that I love her so well , that were shee not mine Unkles wife , I would get her an heire my selfe rather then be his .  And for my Unkle were I his heire apparent , I rather wish he might live till all this World were weary of him , and the next affraid to take him .  Then I survive him ( Tonuge , a pox punish you for lying )  Now I live well , and merily good Nurse ,  Wealth and Estates , bring cares and troubles with 'em ,  Were all young heires of my contented mind ,  Parents and Patrons would be better prayd for .  Present my thanks and best respects unto her .  What member hast thou good then ?  Desires shee me Nurse ?  Refuse me if I desire not her as much , for all she is my Unkles leavings .  And shee shall have me Nurse — And she were ten Unkles wives , and she ten of mine Aunts .  Any whither , to Islington , Newington , Padington , Kensington , or any of the City out-leaps ( I know 'em all ) for a spirt and back againe , tell her I am up and ready for her , and could ha' been without her stirrup porredge , though I thanke her for her care . A man can not be too well prepar'd , or provided for so sweete a Lady , in so much distresse . A very Andromeda , chain'd to a Rock .  The Devills in this overruning Tongue of mine , I could finde in my heart to worme him out with my teeth .  That I am more oblig'd to her Ladiship then I was to my Mother , shee has brought mee a new man into the World , and that my Being and my Life is hers .  Good , I must weare her favours .  To doe you service Madam , under whose commands I build my happinesse .  I would not be thought insolent deare Madam .  You are all tendernesse to your servants Madam .  O Mr. Saveall —  What doe you meane good sir ?  Hold I beseech you , and sir , though I lose the Widow by my error ( which was indeed but a meere accident ) let mee not be so miserable made as to lose you , before you heare a short Examination —  Deliver'd you the Letter which I sent  Yesterday to the Damsell that you wot of ?  Hell take her for a mistaking whore ,  Shee has the widows Letter , and the widow hers ,  I found it sir , when you judiciously  Said it was Ruffian-like , and Strumpet language .  O slightly , slightly , curse o' my heedless braine !  And then too be trapp'd with carelesnesse .  When I was so religiously resolv'd ,  T' incline to vertue , and a Marriage life ,  Thinking with one hand to cast off my follies ,  And to take hold of vertue with the other ,  For sir , ( I will confesse my selfe to you )  The Letter you conveyed was in defiance ,  A loose liv'd wanton , intended to a whore ,  That impudently hopes an interest in me .  I there was  ( The Hell confound it on 't ) my giddines :  I seald both Letters e're I superscrib'd 'em ,  And so gave each the contrary direction .  That fortune should favour a whore before  An honest woman . 'T was the sweetest Letter ,  The daintiest winning things — ( the Devills in 't )  Shee must not carry 't from the widow so .  Fetch mee the Letter againe .  Cannot you beat it out of her sir ?  Thus sir — I 'le give you demonstration , you malicious Rogue , you that conspirst with her to betray me , so good a Master I have beene to thee , and so good a friend to her , I 'le recompence you both .  But what you Traitor you ?  I owe you somewhat for your last-nights absence , too pernicious Villaine that kepst thy selfe out o' the way o' purpose that I should bee drunke , and abuse my self , and the house here all lay o' your absence , There 's somewhat more for that .  Who knowes an honest Servingman that wants a good Master .  No faith , To speak truth he was as much abus'd in it , as you in doing a thing as contrary to his vile conditions , as you did to your noble Name . But I crave onely your pardon , I know not what I doe besides . This crosse blow of chance staggers my reason so —  But yet shee 'l know I have had a whore . Yet then you may say , 't is such a running Disease among young Gentlemen , that not one of a hundred has scap'd it , that have prov'd stay'd men afterwards , and very sober husbands ; As looke you yonder 's one may prove , whom now I have in good sooth a great desire to beate .  Cry you mercy sir , are you his friend ?  What Lord I pray , that I may honour him too .  That loves women above wine , wine above wealth , wealth above friend , and friends above himselfe . There 's no scandall in all that sir .  In the name of flesh , for what dos his Lordship employ that Angle-worme to my Aunt ? Hee has had her this houre in private conference , close chamberd up together , not so much as Matron Nurse in the roome with 'em , 'T is a fine sleeke thing , and almost pitty to hunt it , but sure I must beat it , as place and time convenient may serve .  Is that the businesse after so much privacy ? very prety , my Aunts a woman too , and me Unkle may have as forked a fortune , as any of the City , that lend out money to hedge in Lordships .  And I sir , and 't please you .  May I not wait upon your Gentleman to the Gate Madam ?  Umh — I am under Government .  No t is apparent , this over-slighting of him proclaimes shee loves him , whose follower Madam , and I know Lords followers , Knights fellows .  To as many as their faire Ladies will give way to , that are not faint-hearted .  I am only as I am in your favour Madam .  But did you never go ?  O my sweet Lady Aunt ! I was indeed amongst 'em , and deeply merry .  I will abuse your goodnesse so no more .  What 's now become of mee , I am under correction .  O my deare heavenly Aunt !  I 'le never be drunk agen .  O sweet golden Aunt !  Well sir , the striefe appeas'd , you were tane in . Then hay is there no Sack i' the house ? T is for you in you Chamber is replid , up you are had , where is the Rogue my man ? not seene since Yesterday ; Fetch me a wench . Blesse us cries old Sim the Butler , wee have none i' th house , nor cannot send for any out o' dores . Dost — tell me that ? is not my Ladies Woman , my Ladies Chamber-maide , the Laundry-maide , the wench under the Cooke , my Ladies Nurse old Winter plum , nor my Lady her selfe within ? I know , or will know all the shee things in the house .  Pseigh .  It is not worth it Madam .  What an unhallowed Rascall was I !  Wine , Roaring and Whoring , I will lay that saying of yours Madam to my heart ; but Wine is the great wheele that sets the rest a whirling .  Still shee corrects me for my medling with base matters and people , shee is not angry shee sayes , though I call'd for her last night i' my drinke , shee gives me mony , I will now understand her , and whereunto all her former favours and her later admonitions are directed , and presently appeare a gratefull Nephew .  O Madam you have made me , and now take me to you .  Freely and wholly , the truest , faithfullst servant , and I thinke the ablest that any Lady of your lacks and longings ever bestowd a favour on , though I say 't my self . You 'l swear 't when you have tri'd me , and 't be but hourely for a month together .  I defy Surgeon , or the Potecary can come against mee .  O for blabbing Madam never feare mee , now I am resolv'd to live soberly , and be onely yours . And with such pleasure , with such safety , secresie , and fulnesse , I will so constantly supply you , that you shall not have time to dreame of the defects of your old man .  No man living Madam can doe it for him , more naturally and lesse sinfully ; I am of the same flesh and blood , and bring his youth to your pleasure , how can you thinke old Unkles children are got ? or how came up the proverbe , Shee is one of mine Aunts , doe you thinke ? You would have a child by him . All your Cawdells and Cock-broaths will never doe it , An old mans generative spirit runs all into braine , and that runs after covetousnesse too , get wealth , not children . Believe it , much Nephews helpe belongs to it , and then the children are not degenerate , I cannot thinke but many Unkles know it , and give way to it , because stranger bloods shall not inherit their Lands , and so sweet Aunt if I live not to inherit his , my son may , in your first born . There will be a sweet comfort to you .  In earnest ? yes , And I pray so take it , and let it be a bargaine , and now presently in the Chamber , I will make you my first payment for the purchace .  That shall be tri'd presently . Come sweet Madam , I finde you are willing , and I sweare I am resolute , and will be as secret as your own woman , if you will not goe I protest I 'le carry you .  Psewgh — I need none o' these whesings I .  Harke there againe , Madam have I not proved sufficiently and plainely , that I shall in doing the feate for him doe him the greatest right in the world , in getting him , and you an indubitable heire , and to give him both the comfort , and the glory of it ?  And you can doe him no wrong ( though you had not a Ladies priviledge ) to Cuckold him , for assure your selfe hee Cuckqueanes you , now come Madam .  I never was his Pimpe , but what I have heard , I have heard . Now come Madam .  O did hee so , Madam , believe it they two have whor'd together , and that Saveall has pimpt for him oftener then you ever lay with my Unkle .  What else ? Saveall is not onely his grave Parasite , but his Pimpe , and has spent my Unkle more in these civill punctuall wayes , then I in all my whole debauches , what did you thinke hee kept him for ? O they are a brace of subtle dry Tweakes , come now Madam .  I 'le tell you all now upon our inward acquaintance .  Madam —  I tooke not a right course .  Yes , yes , a pox my course was right enough , but I undertooke her at an ill season . Her spruce springall left her but now , I 'le tell her so Madam .  I doe , the Devill blind her .  I know how you 'l undoe mee witty Madam , Ah —  Shee 'l come about I see .  Most readily good Madam , I have your full directions .  I cannot be so negligent in your service Madam , I finde by this fain'd errand shee dares not trust her trollop there , I love her wit now too .  Be he a Lord of Lords I 'le not retire a foot .  But you shall heare mee Widow , and that to the point and purpose .  As his approach was first my Lord , shee has heard him first already , and my request is to be heard now , and then let her answer both him , or me , or neither , what care I ?  I came to talke with this Gentlewoman .  I say I love you , doe resolve to marry you , and then to use you as I list .  Take her at her word againe sir , and I shall take you by the luggs . I say againe you shall have none but me .  What , doe you foole mee , or him , your selfe , or all ?  Are you good at that , pray sir , how old are you ? — To Bel .  My Lord I am a Gentleman .  How can you use a Gentleman that loves you  Dearer then Life , and onely bends his study  By all meanes to deserve you , one that ( can not ? )  Will not , while there are wayes to die , live out of  Your favour , with so much despightfull scorne ,  That when he speakes his soul to you through his lips ,  You make his Language yours , and give 't a Boy ?  The man that speakes it I am he .  Uns , but you shall not , you mistake the person to whom you are , or ought to direct your affection , you mistake strangely .  What can I say now ! Slife if that anger you after the errour found , and confest , I 'le write worse to you , and in earnest .  Shee meanes that to mee now , but I 'le take no notice ; I 'le finde as good a Widow in a Taverne Chimney , O shee 's a dainty Widow !  Nay but Lady .  Yes , yes , I meane so too , but you shall wooe mee hard first .  Sir , I have seene you but twice , and it has beene at places where I cannot allow of your resorts , first at my Aunts , and now here at my Widowes .  Thou art a witty , pretty Child . But doe you here use your wit , out of the smell-reach of your Lords perfum'd Gloves , and I shall take you by the Nose .  And let me finde you there no more , nor here I charge you .  Trust to your discretion !  Very good .  Your Lordships — with a whew .  Excuse me sir I pray .  Feare it not sir , I like her not so well now .  Ha' you crosse tricks Mistris Crostill ? well I will goe drinke your Crotchets out of my Pate , then home , and doe that which mine Aunt and I must only know . This is her Night of Grace , if shee keepe touch with me .  MAdam , Madam , sweet Madam , 't will not be day these three houres , stay but three minuits longer , but a touch more , she 's whipt into her Chamber . Could I but finde the Dore — I know my Unkle's from home — O shee returnes with light : that 's well .  Would not any man be mad for losing such a Bed-fellow ? sweet Madam , let us retire without any noise .  Not with one doe more I warrant you , come away Madam , Madam , somebody knocks mainly at the gate ; and I believe it is my Master return'd before his time !  'T is the Rogue my man I warrant drunke , and has forgot I turnd him away , but he shall spoyl no sport . Come away Madam .  So now come Madam , I commend you in the charge you have given your watch-woman .  Why to tell my Unkle ( if he be come ) that hee must not come neare you , that you have had no rest to Night till just now you are fallen asleepe , and so forth .  I have got her with child to night , with a sparke of mine owne spirit , and longs already to doe me mischiefe . The boy will be like mee , therefore 't is pity to knock 't o' the head : But come Madam tother crash and good night , must I drag you to 't ?  You dare not sure , and now take heed you vex me not , have you not been my whore ?  Faith but I dare , and if you will not obey me in a course of further pleasure to night , fetch me a hundred peeces to take a course abroad withall , doe yee looke ? I 'le make you fetch me hundred after hundred Huswife , when I want it , or shall be pleas'd to call for 't . All comes out else , the gates of your fame flies open Lady , I will proclaime our Act .  I shall gaine Reputation by 't in the company I keepe abroad , and if the Cuckold my Unkle come to the knowledge of it at home , I shall possesse him that you lustfully tempted me to it .  You may conceale all then , and so will I , and mend my fortune by yours , I will live bravely upon your fortune , and the heire which I have got to Night shall inherit it , my Unkles estate . And therefore indeed I would have all conceald ; for my childs good , or rather for mine owne : for it shall goe hard if I put him not into a course in his minority to consume the estate upon me before he come to age .  And O that ever I did it !  Come I 'le doe you agen , and then all 's whole agen ;  Y' are both undone , O you prodigious monsters  That have betwixt you made me monster too !  What 's to be done , but that I kill you both ,  Then fall upon my sword .  O the Devill , what a case am I in now !  How 's this ? Shee 's come about agen , and has patch'd all up already . I hope shee 'l worke mine Unkle to reward mee for my Night-worke , and bring him in time to hold my stirrop while his George mounts her ; Shee 's a delicate well-going beast ! I know but one to match her in a course , just the same pace and speede as if I had onely had the breaking , and managing of her my selfe , but the marke goes out of Phebes mouth now ; and I 'le play my Aunt against all the Town . But how shee thought to fright mee with villaine and impudent . And now goe to bed George , ha , ha , ha , I find her drift . No wit like womens at a sodaine shift .  You are deceiv'd in that .  Shee was mine own before your wife became our coupler , in English plaine our Bawd .  For which you have your witnesses , this false Traytor , that brought you on .  And this darke Lanthorne here , this old deceptio visus , That juggled the wrong party into my Bed .  Doe you grin Grim Malkin ? But sweete Madam , if your fine Springall Bellamy had lien there in my stead she would ha' brought the right party ; your Ladiships Lilly white selfe .  Nay , it shall out , since you have wrought my ruine , I will be the destruction of you all ; And therefore now heare mee O Knight , and first resolve to make me rich in my reward , for wonders I 'le unfold .  Reward ? why not ? why should not you reward my good Offices as well as punish my ill ? I must and will rely upon you for all the good that can befall mee ; or if I must expect no further from you , I 'le give 't you gratis , And if you be any thing but a Wittall heare mee .  To set you out livelyer , then all your paintings : or d ee heare , will you give mee a hundred pound a quarter for my silence ?  That which ( if you are no Wittall ) you 'l be leath to hear , but you shall have it .  And since you hold my attempt at her , so haynous , you may be pleas'd to know I was incited to 't by example of him I nam'd , that smooth Fac'd Bellamy .  You may aske her bolster there , her Madam Nurse old Mother Cock broth .  I , O you aske her sir , what shee did with him , or he with her , in their two houres privacy in her chamber ,  when hee came to take up five hundred pound for his Lord , There was a sweet taking up , sir shee confessed all to me , and on purpose , I dare be sworn to embolden mee in my attempt to her Ladyship .  That hee made use of your Bed with your wife , what language shall I utter 't in ? you were best fee it done before you believe it .  Well , there 's for them two .  Now for that Rogue ( because I must expect no further good of you , but this which is mine owne you say ) I 'le lay him open to you , you remember how once I ingratiated my selfe to you by rescuing you from a Robbery and Murder ( as you suppos'd ) for which you took me into favour —  This Rogue plotted that businesse , 't was a mere trick of his invention . The supposed Theeves were his companions , and wrought by him only to scare you and run away when wee came to your succour , onely to indeare mee to you . There was no hurt meant , but the slap I gave him over the Pate to colour the businesse , with little blood , I wish now I had cleft his braines .  Doe you so sir ? Then 't was mine own invention , let him deny 't if he can .  And now I have utterd my whole mind sir , and you declard I must expect no further good of you , come away Phib , I have injur'd thee long , I 'le make thee now amends for all ; I 'le marry thee , and sell Tobacco with thee .  You 'l have your house then known to have beene a bawdy-house ?  Under such Governesses .  Another sprunt youth .  Me Lady ? I am busy ; I am busy .  I blush for you , what would you say now , were it not too late ?  Stand off a while Phib .  Tempt me not good Lady ,  To your own prejudice , your destruction ;  I am one you cannot live and lie withall  A fortnight you , alas y' are but a grissell ,  Weake picking meat ; Here 's one will hold me tack ,  Seaven constant ordinaries every night ,  Noonings , and intermealiary Lunchings ,  At freedome every day , hold belly hold ,  The Cupboord never shut .  Nor mind me Lady ; T will be better for you .  You had a thin chin'd husband , plaid at Doublets with ye ,  And that perhaps , but twise or thrice a weeke ,  You are incapable of better Game ,  Here 's one shall hold me Tick tack night by night ,  And neither of us guilty of a Why-not ,  Shee 's bred up to my hand , and knowes her play .  Slight ? I honour you .  In caring for you to preserve your life ,  And your estate , which I confesse my selfe  Unworthy of : besides I am ingag'd  To doe a poore soule right for my issues sake  Shee goes withall .  O but conscience is conscience .  Take heed what you say , I 'le shake your estate ,  If you dare call her whore 'fore witnesses .  Are you catch'd Widow ? Future , for Unkles now ?  I doe , but yet I tell you againe conscience is conscience ;  The Woman 's not compounded with .  I have lately suspected so .  I am sorry I said so much , 't was but my suspition in the dayes of my wickednesse , I am honest now , and can thinke no such matter — O is the parson come —  Unkle and Madam , I am come to call you to my house to Dinner , and your Lordship if you please , and all the rest here , I want one , my Rivall Bellamy , where is he ? wee 'l be all friends to day ; and at night sweete heart , — at night , at night , at night —  Wee 'l get the Boy that shall become a Knight   But where 's this Bellamy , what new Ladies that ?  Ha , is 't so ifaith ? and ( now I thinke on 't ) introth I thought so ; would I have tax'd'her thinke you , but with a Woman ? pray Mr. Bellamy let me salute your lips , and good Unkle now wee are Neighbours , and both good House-keepers , let us not be strangers to one another .  I shall be his heire in spight o' the Devill , and all his workes and mine .  And now my Lord to grace our Wedding feast ,  As you in honour are the greatest Guest  You have full power to welcome all the rest . 