 O Misery ! O Desolation !  Go back , if you respect your safety , go ;  And look not this way where the Air disperseth  Nothing but foul Infection , Pain and Sorrow .  Return , I say , for here you appear strangers ,  And run not to the Ruine of your selves :  This way is fil'd with Cries : you can meet nothing  But Lamentations of a thousand Souls :  Some Lame , some Blind , some Deaf , some Lunatick ,  Some struck with Palsie , some with Leprosie ;  All sighing , groaning , crying , underneath  The painful weight of Sorrow and Affliction .  We are all sinful :  Yet no way to extenuate our fault ,  Or murmure at the Judgement faln upon us ;  We have been held obedient to the Church ,  True Subjects to the King , and friendliest Neighbours  Among our selves , all Sicily could boast of :  This part of it , or Province , being call'd ,  The fair Talermian Fields , and is the same  Our Kings have customarily laid out  For their Queens Dowry : and has therefore been  Vulgarly call'd The Paradice of Love .  Y' are now upon the Confines of that Country ,  And cannot scape some dangerous ill ,  If you dare tast the Aire of it .  See more of those distressed Souls that flie  The foul Contagion ,  Yet charitable to each others wants :  For here the Deaf conducts the Blind : the Blind  Supports the Lame : the Dumb removes the sick and feeble .  All that can make least shift for 't , flie the Place ,  Then do not you press toward it .  None , Old nor Young , Man , Woman Child , all  In one kinde or other , do feel Affliction .  None , though the most do wish  They might , in lieu of their sad sufferings .  VVe hope a better Air will cure us . But  VVe are advis'd by our Divines and Augurs ,  By the best means we can , to make our Journey  Towards the Court , to send our sad complaint  Unto the King .  They find by Divination , that this punishment  Is falne upon this Province by the Sin  Of the Adulterous Queen , whose Dowrie 't was .  And that until  His justice take away Her loathed life ,  This evil will not cease .  Yes Sir ; we hear shee 's banish'd , and forbid relief :  But nothing save her polluted blood must quench this flame ,  In expiation of her Sin and shame .  Yes , and thus grounded , that our pains began  Just at the hour , the Kings Indulgencie  Releas'd her forfeit Life .  O now my pain increases . 1.  O mine Eyes . 2.  My Brain . 3.  My Bones . 4.  My limbs are on the Rack .  Here in this Arm shrunk up as it were sear'd with fiery Irons .  A precious cooling Balm that has extinguished  The scorching heat I felt , and has reduc'd  My Flesh , my Sinews , and my Arteries ,  Into their natural temper and true use .  I do , I do .  O sure you are some Heavenly Saint or Goddess .  All we have  VVill be too slight reward : first take my store .  I pray take more .  With happy feet I shall spread it through the Countrey .  'T is she , and at the price of Life I vvill relieve her .  Can such a goodness deserve so fowl a Censure ?  What hinders now their execution ?  O gracious woman , so I may safely call you ,  VVho once preserv'd my life .  I ought not to conceal it : therefore know  That some years past being imploy'd to Court  To render the Kings Rents for this Province :  VVhich though I duely did , there was a Lord ,  A strange officious one , that charg'd me deeply ,  And all our Province , with detested breach  Of our Allegiance : at which my rage  Banish'd my reason , and confounded so  My senses , that without respect of Person ,  Or Place , which was the Danger of the Law ,  I struck him there in Court : and was adjudg'd  To suffer death for 't , till you won my Pardon .  'T is he that braggs so much his truth unto the Crown ; I need not name him .  I le be your faithful Messenger , my Lord .  It is your Heavenly mind that sweetens all things .  Your Province of Palermo  Thus low submits in dutie to your Highness ,  The Service and the lives of whose Inhabitants  So truely are subjected to your Power ,  That needless is the Preparation  Which with much grief we hear you make against us ,  By hostile Force to root up a Rebellion  Bred meerly out of Rumour .  And happily : see Madam .  The Lord Petruccio Madam  Presents you these .  We shall do shortly ; for the King is coming ,  And not in terror , but with Grace and Favour .  Can that grieve you ? 