 My Lesbia , my Cinthia , my Licoris  Or ( which is best of names ) my lovely Doris — that 's I .  I still am thine and cannot commutate ,  I am as certain to thee as thy fate .  T is not my study , or my travails can  Make me to thee appear another man :  Thou may'st affirm of me as Whilom did  Xantippe of her husband whom she chid ,  Grave Socrates regardless of his worth  He still return'd the same that he went forth .  Before I visit thee , thus may'st thou hear on  Thine in the tribulation of love — Geron .  Ha , ha , ha . Old Whilom Geron , ! art thou come again ?  Could Delphos not detain , nor the Sea swallow thee  But I must be in danger to be punish'd  With the porcupine bristles ? Fate deliver me .  Mistress you know your Mother laid that charge  On me before , and I am ready here  To answer every commer in his kind  Had you forgot it ?  — help your head .  I must not stir from hence , yet I must come  To call you forth . Away , some body comes .  What a sick Court is here ? Shee 's love-struck too .  I can with half a sense find her disease ;  But cannot guess the object of her love .  She keeps the fire so close up in her bosom ,  That she will sooner perish by 't , then suffer  A spark of it flie out to make discovery .  The Princess she 's love-sick for two ; and her  Despair of gaining either's her consumption .  But what think I of their loves , when mine own  Is trouble enough ? Now the visitants ;  My great Lords Howdies are upon the entry ,  And the unwelcom'st first .  Yes , you may crave it Sir , But not obtain it :  Her nearness to the Princess at this time  Is by so strict necessity requir'd .  That is the Mistriss whom I wait upon ,  Though now at remote distance : She attends  Her Mother at this instant , and her Mother  The Princess in much privacy . If I  May be thought worthy to receive the knowledge  Of what you have in trust unto the Princess ,  It shall be orderly convey'd unto her Grace .  Sir , you have lost much time : you might have said  How does the Princess ? And I answer thus ,  She is most dangerously sick ; not to be seen  By him or any man .  I 'le tell my Mistriss , who shall certifie  Unto my Lady , who shall intimate  Unto the Princess what you have left in trust  With me , her Graces hand-maid thrice remov'd .  My great Lords especially parasite . I am beholden to you .  Here comes another ; an importunate ,  Though impertinent suitor of mine own .  This comes nearer  To my regard then tother ; and deserves  A comfortabler answer . She 's not well Sir ,  But much amended in her health . 'T is like ,  Your Lord ( would he approach to visit her )  Shall find a fair admission to her Grace .  No , no ; away .  Away good Tersulus ; and hazard not  Your Lords , for your own fortunes .  Yet again man .  I shall , and better of you when you are gone .  A pretty nimble fellow and a Taylor .  I could almost affect him , did not this  More supple handed Barber put him by .  This requires an answer  Of health indeed .  Well . Exceeding well , and longs to see your Lord .  Nay , good Varillus ,  I have not gain'd a conference with you  Since your return from Delphos .  Something now .  Here is an Epistle  Came from him to my hands this morning . Hang him .  She was well when I left her ,  But subject to much passion : She is well  And ill , and well again all in three minutes .  Great Ladies may be so . But if I should  Be sick and well , and sick again and well  Again as oft as she ; the world would say  I had it — And had been a courtier , to some purpose .  Like enough , but great ones must not be talk'd on   I le send his sister to appease him .  Madam , my Lady calls for you ? My Lord  The Princess has tane notice of your visit  And wishes you draw nearer if you please .  I have heard men say when they on gamesters look  ( Though equally affected to both parties ,  Or both were strangers to 'em yet ) they 'l yeeld  A secret inclination which should win .  I am for Philocles , now , against Philargus ,  Who is as noble , and as free to me ,  As ever Philocles was . But tarry Doris ;  You have a bett upon the game I take it ,  Your love unto Varillus . If his Lord  Rise to a Kingdom , you may hope to climbe  The ladder of a Ladyship by the man .  But not too fast : Here 's one pursues the game  That is as like to win . Why if he does ?  His follower Tersulus loves me past Varillus ,  And may as much advance me . But I love not  Him , And the love of honour above husbands  Has been so common among Ladies , that  The fashions stale and ougly .  Yes my Lord .  His ill looks , had almost made me miscarry 't .  Madam , the Princess instantly desires  Your company .  That 's more then I ere knew , or read , by all  He speaks or writes to me . He cloaths his words  In furres and hoods , so , that I cannot find  The naked meaning of his business , Madam .  Lo you there , Madam .  But not so kind , good Madam , as to grant  I know not what .  I know not what to pitty , but your want  Of utterance . It is some horrid thing  That you desire , and are asham'd to speak it .  Be it what it will ; I cannot  Give what I understand not . Y' are too aloof .  Knew not what to say .  Varillus , where 's your Lord ?  Tersulus , where 's yours ?  You Eccho one another . Y' are commanded  Both by the Princess and the Governess  To seek 'em out .  Coupled together ? Go yet one of you .  You I can spare best .  You then .  Do you conspire ? I will return your care .  Your brother Tersulus ?  Do you stay me to abuse me .  Are the men mad .  This is fine fooling —  Good Barber Philocles , and Taylor Philargus ,  You shall not need to trim up his Affection ,  Nor you to stich up his with your forc'd courtesies .  I know , in this , each wooes but for himself ,  And my Affection runs as even betwixt you ,  As nothing but your sizors , or your sheares  Had parted .  And why with you  Antiquity ? I have heard you all this while ,  And though you boast you have an interest in me ,  We are not yet one volume , both bound up  And clasp'd together .  No , I am yet loose paper ; and 't were good  To keep me so ; for when I 'm bound I must  Obey , be search'd , examin'd and corrected .  Yet this I 'le do , and now be serious ,  If you will all obey my rule ; and try  Your fortunes who shall have me .  You boast your worth , and stand on confidence  In powerful advocates : But what are all  Unto my Love , and ( which is more ) my will ?  If you will hear my proposition , hear it .  That you all love me , I believe ; and am  Content that every one of you do think  Himself prime man in my Affection :  And one of you I 'le take . But yet my choice  Must wait upon Eudina's . Therefore mark  If your Lord wins the Princesse , and becomes  The Kings immediate Heir , I will be yours ;  If your Lord , yours .  Then if both have her , I 'le be yours : not else .  Of Whilomes : Ha , ha , ha .  Away , old Whilome .  Away , old child ,  Go tell it Mother , do .  If you had spent , in the Phylosophers school  Your time no better , then in Cupids Lectures ,  What a strange dunce you had been . Tell her , Love shows  In you , as Whilome — she knows what she knows .  Farewel December .  It has relation to some uncouth passage  Betwixt them , in my Ladies youth I guesse ,  Right .  Yes  This for a Creed , That heaven must make its choice and hold you  Of one of them , before she take the other .  You understand me ; and now cease your strife :  When th'ones Lord 's dead , I 'le be the others wife .  So farewel Gentlemen . I have staid too long .  You did not hear me say , Kill you his Lord ,  Nor you kill his .  You need not pull me  For that mans love , I laid thy Lord to sleep :  Had I lov'd thee best , then his Lord had slept .  How ? With a powder , Sir , which my own father  A skilful pothecary prepar'd ; who , if  Philargus dye , shall hang with us for Company .  Yes , But now the perils past .  See , if he sleep , t is walking . 