 He much desires , sir , to be held excus'd . 'T is true that he invited you . His dinner 's ready ; and his heart welcomes you . But he has met with an unhappy newes to day . —  His only sonne , whom he of late expected home out of France , we hear , is dead .  That 's the impression the heavy newes makes in you , Gentlemen .  Nay , Gentlemen , although my Masters sudden sadnesse shuts him from you . His meat and wine are ready . There are some good company in his Parlour too , Pray stay .  Both . Pray be pleas'd to enter .  I hope his passionate fit e're you have din'd will be past over . He is not wont to suffer long under the hand of sorrow .  'T is like that you shall see him ere you go .  'T is like you shall fall short though of your aim  At my young Mystresse , who by this black newes ,  Becomes my Masters heire , and so the white  That all the gallant suiters of the City  And Court will level their keen shafts at . Where  Are mine own hopes then , that stood as faire  In competition for her , love as any ,  When the great noise of her inheritance ,  Shall drown each Lovers tongue , that cannot say ,  It is a Lords at least , I rather wish  The young man had not did .  O me ! Master Strigood , what make you here ?  And he is almost dead with sorrow : Back sir .  The sight of you , that are his sole vexation , will make him mad .  Good Mr. Strigood depart .  Yes : if you had the wherewithal .  I have no money , sir , but what 's my Masters .  Speak lower , sir .  Be not so loud , I pray .  What mean you Mr. Strygood .  You may ; you train'd one to 'em   I am in ; and must , to hide my old faults , do  Like an ill Painter , lawbe 'em o're with new .  Sir , I am in your hands , here are ten pieces .  I hope you will not thank my Master for 'em .  Will you go now ?  This desperate old Russian , would undo me ,  But he hopes to waste his brother by me .  He has spent himself to beggery ; and would fall so ,  But that he has pernicious fire in 's brain ,  That raging spreads to ruine others with him .  I must beware of him ,  Is she come too ?  Then 't is deereed , my Master must , from sorrow , suffer in madnesse .  H' has lock't himself up , Madam ; and will suffer  None to come at him , till his sorrowful fit  Be somewhat over .  Nor his half brother neither : yet he 's here .  I must remove  This fit of hers . There 's but one way to do it ;  And that 's to talk of her white boy , she 's fond on .  First , Madam .  ( By your good Ladiships leave ) how does your sonne  Sweet Master Nehemiah Nestlecock ?  O good Lady !  That 's two yeares since .  And he was then but young , he 's now a man .  Within there Madam ; so is Gabriella  The French young Gentlewoman to attend you .  I hope old Strygood , who now on the sudden  Hath slipt her memory , meets her by the eares first .  But the good minute 's come , before I look't for 't .  My Master now appears . He looks most sourely  Expressing more of anger then of grief .  I feare , old Strygood was so loud with me ,  That he hath over-heard us , and I shall break  Before I am a Freeman .  His man , I think , he said .  Does your man trouble you . I do not like that   Wilde ! Are you there ?  And there again , to riotous expence !  'T is I directly that he 's troubled with .  Some slave has writ some fearful information .  Against me , and he hugs and kisses it .  I hear not that .  Now it comes .  'T is as I fear'd .  Whatever he pretends , I know his drift :  And , e're I 'll be discover'd by my stay ;  Being run out , I 'll choose to run away . —  But that you had foreknowledge of my habit ,  And seen it in my out-leaps , as you call 'hem ,  I might ha' past . But you in this disguise ,  None but the devil himself that is your Inmate ,  And lodges with you in it , could have known you .  Sure he devis'd it .  He could not think you would have stolne his daughter to ha' set up withal .  That keeps me still in awe . 'T is well you know it .  But it is better , he has no suspition  That I am run away .  And so you are to th' utmost of his power  I dare be sworne ;  And that 's the way to do it .  You need not feare me , Lady ; for I can  But tell your father , if you slight his servant .  Is this the lodging of a Merchants daughter ?  Will you home and see ?  Mystresse , I 'le do you service , and be true to you .  I 'd not have mist of this discovery . —  I would not have mist it .  For all the wealth your father has : and at  Convenient privacy . I le give you reasons ,  That shall gaine your belief to 't .  I le defend you .  So they might make a hot bargain on 't .  This hot-rein'd Mousieur takes 'em for the same .  Strigood would have 'em be I came in time .  And heark you , Monsieur Strigood , you will be put to 't .  I say so too .  But to my self reserve what I will do .  And why Cash pray . Ha' not you chang'd your names  From Joyce and Gabriella to Jane and Frances .  And is not your Uncle Strigood now become  Your father , by the name of Mr. Lightfoot  The nimble dancing Master ? And must I still  Carry the name of Cash ? and having lost  My nature too , in having no cash left ?  ( Pox o' the dice ) call me Mr. Outlash .  But after you , faire Mistris ,  Now to your question for the squares within .  Your father Lightfoot , you forget agen .  There 's a drawn match made : For the Monsieurs  Have ta'ne their money again : And you have still  Your Maidenheads , I hope . But to have heard  The coile they kept , the wrangle , and the stir ;  And how the young Blades put the old one to 't ;  Would ha perplext you more then keeping of  Your Maidenheads from men you love .  O how the old man chafes that you would offer  To make your mone to them to move their pity ,  And not to make his bargain good ; and then  How they put home his basenesse to him ; to make sale  Of his own blood and honour in his children .  ( They knew they said some parents in their countrey ,  After their children were turn'd whores , would share  To live upon the profits , but to sell  Their soules before they were damned , fie ; fie , fie , fie ) .  Till he confest indeed you were none of his .  But children of some friends of his deceast ,  Left to his care for breeding ; which he had  Plenteously given , and thought it might seem reasonable  To raise his money out of you agen .  Baser and baser still .  The Monsieurs cri'd , and swore if they could finde  Your Parents were Gentle and vertuous ,  Being their first Loves , they would marry you ,  To free you from this miserable thraldome .  Beware of Travellers , many passe abroad  For gallant fellowes that have run their countrey ,  For picking pockets .  You are pleas'd .  But you have known my love ; for Gabriella  Let 'hem share her betwixt 'hem . You and I  Made one , may soon make peace with the old man  At home .  And then for Gamesters , Gentlemen . If you 'll play .  I 'le bring ye those shall venture money enough .  'T is he , I see him hither .  I know the trick on 't .  I presume  You do not know me , sir .  He knowes me , I feare , too soon . If now my plot faile , and he have a Counterplot upon me . I am laid up .  Do you not know me yet sir .  You sometimes had a sonne sir .  He 's dead you say .  But to supplie his losse you have a daughter  That may endear a sonne , sir , to your comfort .  First upon my knees  Let me implore your pardon .  I may not rise yet sir .  I know not who you mean sir .  Sir , I am your Prentice .  Prav sir afford me hearing .  I have put me  Into your hands , and not without much hope ,  To gaine your pardon , and your daughters love .  For your advantage sir : For  By this way  Of Gallantry , as you call it , I have travell'd  Through the Resorts and Haunts publike and private  Of all the Gallants in the Town . In brief  I have found your daughter , where she had been lost  For ever in your brother Strigoods hands .  Madam Gabriella , the French Damsel 's there .  And others , men and women , whom you 'll know when you come there .  Because they thought you 'd know 'hem .  Pray obscure  Your selves in that by room there , where you may  See and hear all that passes , nor can any  Passe out o' th' house without your notice .  The Gentlemen and I will mix again  With the Society , if they please .  Yes , 't is your brother .  Could not  The old Knight part 'hem ?  Here sir , undone I feare .  told me that , and how that hellish purpose  Was vertuously declin'd .  O can you pardon me sir . 