 Go to I say , go to ; as y 're my Neece ,  And hope t' inherit any thing that 's mine :  Shake off this Maiden peevishness . Do you whimper  Upon your wedding day ? Or , do you think  You are not married yet ? Did you not say  I Millicent take Mandevill ? A ha !  Was it not so ? Did not I give you too ?  I that have bred you from the cradle up  To a fit growth to match with his fair years ;  And far more fair estate .  Love him I charge you .  You will endeavour 't ! Is 't no further yet ?  Stand from her , Nephew ! I 'le so swinge her . Ha!   Dandle her in her humour , do ; and spoyle her .  Her sullen doggedness ,  I 'le baste it out of her . You do not know her  As I do , Nephew .  You will endeavour 't ! Come I 'le see it done .  Marry a man first , and then endeavour  To love him will you ? Ha! Is it but so ?  I 'le see you love him presently . So to bed .  A posset and to bed ,  I 'le see it done . And cause you are so nice  ( To bed I say ) there I will see more done  Then I will speak . Tell me of your endeavour !  Such tender dealers spoyle young Brides ; and get  Nothing of stubborness . Down with her I say  Now in her wedding sheets : She will be naught else .  'T is your sullenness ;  Would you have brided it so lumpishly  With your spruce younker , that fine silken beggar ,  Whose Land lies in your Husbands counting house ;  Or the most part .  Would you have whin'd and pul'd , had you had him ,  To bedward think you ? yet to speak the truth ,  And that wherein she has vext me a thousand times ,  I never saw her laugh , nor heard her sing  In all my life : yet she could both , I have heard ,  In company she lik'd .  Hey day .  Whoop , how 's this ?  What impudence is this .  What canst thou mean by this ? dos this become thee ?  Is 't possible thou canst do thus ?  Do you hear gentlewoman ; are you i' your wits ?  What hidious noise is this .  Call and raise the street .  A new kind of flourish .  Then let 'em in . If they wrong us to night ,  The Law to morrow shall afford us right .  Pray let 's resolve to se et . Here comes their Prologue .  A special drove of horn beasts .  How now ! all vanisht ! The devil take the hindmost .  Who are they ? Can you guesse .  I am quite out of wits ; and yet I le counsel  Thee , Nephew . Heark thee .  No marry shall he not .  Nephew , You shall not , till shee bride it modestly .  T is now too late , but I le so rattle her up to morrow .  Will you to your lodging ?  They wait you in your chamber .  Take up the lights , sirrah .  And well said Nephew . Will you to your chamber , Mistress ? —  'T was her plot ,  And let her smart for 't .  Rare impudence !  It is some villanous libel then I warrant .  Sawst thou not who convai'd it in ?  Does it not you ?  Now shee speaks woman .  This sounds well .  Neece , thou hast won mee ;  And Nephew , she 's to good for you . I charge you  Give her her will : I le have her home again else .  Stay there a little .  I 'le lay the price of twenty Maidenheads  Now , as the market goes , you get not hers  This seav'night .  What needs all this ?  Do we not live in a well govern'd City ?  And have not I authority ? I le take  The care and guard of you and of your house  'Gainst all outragious attempts ; and clap  Those Goatish Roarers up , fast as they come .  Agree on 't twixt your selves . I see y' are friends .  I 'le leave you to your selves .  Heark hither Neece — Now I dare trust you with him :  He is in yeares , t is true . But hear'st thou girl  Old Foxes are best blades .  Good keeping makes him bright and young again .  A year or two perhaps .  Then , when he dies , his wealth makes thee a Countess .  That 's my good Girl .  And Nephew , Love her , I find she deserves it ;  Be as benevolent to her as you can ;  Shew your good will at least . You do not know  How the good will of an old man may work  In a young wife . I must now take my journey  Down to my countrey house . At your moneths end  I le visit you again . No ceremony  Joy and content be with you .  How comes it Sir , to pass , that such a newes  Is spread about the town ? is my Neece dead ,  And you prepar'd to mirth Sir , hah ?  Is this the entertainment I must find  To welcome me to town ?  Sure he is mad ;  Or do you understand his meaning sirs ?  Or how or where his wife died ?  Pray what have you been to her ? I nere found you  Appear a suiter to her .  I have done ill ; and wish I could redeem  This act with half my estate .  Wee 'l follow you .  If she does live ( as he bears me in hand  She is not dead ) I le tell you briefly , Sir ,  If all the law bodily and ghostly ,  And all the conscience too , that I can purchase  With all the wealth I have can take her from him ,  I will recover her , and then bestow her  ( If you refuse her ) on your so you speak of ,  ( whose right she is indeed ) rather then he  Shall hold her longer . Now mine eyes are open'd .  Will you walk in .  Your pleasure .  Mil . Have I with patience waited for this hour ,  And does fear check me now ? I 'le break through all ,  And trust my self with yon'd milde Gentleman .  He cannot but be noble .  Attend Gentleman .  He puts the blockheads on 'hem grosly .  What are these ?  What art thou fellow ? What dost thou seek ?  Here 's good stuff towards .  Have you been a bastard-getter and marry my Neece .  I le teach you to get a bastard , sirrah .  Now what say you to that Sir ?  How 's that ?  Is 't possible .  What do you fear , why stare you ? Are you frantick ?  What 's the matter now ?  What is the business ?  What deed of darkness ? speak it plainly .  I said he was mad before , ha , ha , ha .  Now will I use Authority and skill .  Friends , guard the doors . None shall depart the house .  Marry Sir , shall you .  You know your Chamber huswife . I 'le wait o' your Master  To night . We will not part until to morrow day ,  Justice and Law lights every one his way .  My worthy friends , y' are come unto a cause  As rare , as was your unexpected coming  From the supposed grave —  How quick you are ! Good Mr. Rashly , know  ( Though I crav'd your assistance ) onely I  Supply the chief place in Authority .  How 's that ?  Bring in the parties .  The first branch of the question rises here  If Quicksands wife , my Neece , be dead or living  Speak Gentlemen . What can you say to this ?  Remove her , and let instant tryal be made  To take the blackness off .  However , your consent to be divorc'd  From Millicent is irrecoverable .  Now Mr. Banelass —  Your fact is manifested and confest .  Are you content  To take this woman now in question ,  If she be found no Moor to be your Wife ,  In holy marriage to restore her honour ?  This protestation  Is clear , without respect of portion , now ,  Or that she is my Neece : For you must know  She is no Neece of mine that could transgress  In that leane kind : Nor must she ever look  For favour at my hands .  Sirrah you have your suit and your desert ,  'T is your best part to pass it patiently .  I , that 's the point must now be urg'd . The Law  Asks her at your hands . Answer me , where is she ?  Speak villain , Murderer , where is my Neece ?  I have in heart given her your son already .  How can you answer this ?  'T is an old vice grown in him from his youth ,  Of which bring forth for proof his bastard there .  Ha , ha , ha . Come hither Buzzard . Thou shalt not want a Master .  To shut up all : Theophilus , take my Neece ,  We 'll shortly find a Lawfull course to marry ye .  How now ! do you look squemish on your fortune ,  Sir her 's a Gentleman shall maintain her blood  As worthy as your own till you defile it ,  T is best you cleanse it again .  Enough , enough . I hope all pleas'd at last  But Master Quick-sands here . 