 I may not , brother .  What! suffer you to pine , and peak away  In your unnatural melancholy fits ;  Which have already turn'd your purer blood  Into a toad-pool dye . I am asham'd  ( Upon my life ) almost to call you brother  But nature has her swing in me . I must .  Therefore I crave you ( as you are my brother )  To shake this dull and muddy humor off ,  By visiting the streets , and quit your chamber ,  Which is a sickness to you .  I can say , O my brother too , to shew you  How it becomes you . I have the same cause  Equally with your self , to spend my life  In sollitary mourning ; and would do it ,  Could it make good our loss : My honor'd Father !  A tear has scap'd me there : But that 's by th'by ,  And more of anger 'gainst his enemy ,  And his for ever curs'd posterity ,  That rob'd us of a Father , then of sorrow  For what we know is unrecoverable .  But to sit grieving over his Memory  In a resolved silence , as you do ;  Killing your own blood while a vein holds any  Proceeding from the flesh , that drew out his ,  Is meerly idle . Mingle then your grief  With thought of brave revenge : And do it not  In private Meditation in your Chamber ;  But bear it out till it proceed to Action .  By quenching fire  Of high revenge , with base unmanly blood ;  By stopping of our Fathers cureless wounds  ( Which still bleed fresh in our vex'd memories )  With the proud flesh of him that butcher'd ours .  But his son lives .  O where 's the spirit  That my slain father had . Have you no part of 't ?  Must I now play the Man , whilst you inherit  Onely my Mothers puling disposition ?  Bee 't as you think it , so you will abroad ;  And make the house no longer dark with sighing .  Now Sir the newes with you ?  Is the old Ruffian tane , and hang'd , that slew  My Father ; or his son Brain-battered ; or  His Daughter made a prostitute to shame ?  What marriage ? Quickly .  Theophilus ( I can name him , though his father  Was fatal unto mine ) was sure to her .  It does me good to hear of any cross  That may torment their family . I wish  Joy to the man that did beguile him of her  What ere he be .  That 's nobly said . Take courage with you Brother .  Be sure you carry a strict eye o're his actions ,  And bring me a true account .  Do , and I 'le love thee everlastingly .  Why , now you are my brother .  I hope he has some stratagem a foot  In our revenge to make his honour good :  It is not grief can quit a fathers blood .  Thou tell'st me things , that truth never came near .  Maintain't but in one sillable more , I le tear  Thy mischievious tongue out .  Arrogant Rascal .  I bad thee bring account of what he did  Against his enemy ; and thou reportst .  He took his enemies danger on himself ,  And help't to rescue him whose bloody father  Kild ours . Can truth or common reason claim  A part in this report ? My brother doe 't !  Or draw a sword to help Theophilus .  Why dost not get thee from my sight , false fellow ?  My brothers charecter !  Theophilus sisters name — The brighter Lucy  So often written ? nothing but her name —  But change of attributes — one serves not twice .  Blessed , divine , Illustrious , all perfection ;  And ( so heaven bless me ) powerful in one place .  The worst thing I read yet , heap of all vertues —  Bright shining , and all these ascrib'd to Lucy .  O I could curse thee now for being so just  Would thou had'st belied him still .  O mischief of affection ! Monstrous ! horrid .  It shall not pass so quietly . Nay stay .  Thou art a faithful servant .  How I do love thee now !  How didst thou get this paper .  Thou hast my love for ever .  Take that in earnest then .  Set me that chair .  Sick brother — sick at heart , oh — ( sleepy .  Pray stay and hear me .  Her 's no work for them . They 'l find a master here  Too powerful for the strength of all their knowledge .  Yes , brother , at my heart .  Too scornful to be dispossest by them .  It grieves me more to name it , then to suffer 't .  Since I have endur'd the worst on 't , and prov'd constant  To sufferance and silence , t were a weakness  Now to betray a sorrow , by a name ,  More fit to be severely felt then known .  Rather let me die ,  Then so afflict your understanding , Sir .  I know you 'l chide me for 't .  If you be true and honest you must do 't ,  And hartily .  And that 's the physick must help me or nothing :  Noble Physitian — It is —  T is — love and I beseech thee spare me not .  Do you pitty me already . O faint man  That tremblest but at opening of a wound !  What hope is there of thee to search and dress it ?  But I am in thy hands , and forc'd to try thee .  I love — Theophilus —  Theophilus , brother ;  His son that slew our father . Ther 's a love !  O more then time 't were look'd , for fear it festers .  Can you be tender now ?  I 'le strive to do it .  O Brother .  Dissembler ; foul dissembler .  Th' hast play'd with fire ; and like a cunning fellow  Bit in thy pain o'purpose to deceive  Anothers tender touch . I know thy heart weeps  For what't has spoke against . Thou that darst love  The daughter of that Feind that slew thy father ,  And plead against thy cause ! unfeeling man ,  Can not thy own words melt thee ? To that end  I wrought and rais'd 'em : 'T was to win thy health ,  That I was sick ; I play'd thy disease to thee ,  That thou mightst see the loath'd complection on 't ,  Far truer in another then ones self .  And , if thou canst , after all this , tread wickedly ,  Thou art a Rebel to all natural love ,  And filial duty ; dead to all just councel :  And every word thou mock'dst with vehemence  Will rise a wounded father in thy conscience ,  To scourge thy Judgement . There 's thy Saint crost out ,  And all thy memory with her . I 'le nere trust  Revenge again with thee ( so false is manhood )  But take it now into mine own powerfully ,  And see what I can do with my life's hazard ;  Your purpose shall nere thrive . There I 'le make sure work .  How does my habit and my arms become me ?  Wher 's the pistol you provided for me .  T is too long .  I le try what I can do . Thou think'st me valiant .  I 'm sure I have often felt it .  I dare not understand thee yet . Be sure  As you respect my honour , or your life  That you continue constant to my trust ,  And so thou canst not know how much I le love thee .  Here at this Inne abide , and wait my coming  Be careful of my guildings : Be not seen  Abroad for fear my brother may surprise you .  Ther 's money for you ; and ere that be spent  T is like I shall return .  There was no way like this to get within 'em ,  Now courage keep true touch with me . I le vex  Your cunning and unnatural purpose , brother ,  If I do nothing else .  This man  Melts me — alas , Sir , I am a poor boy .  This snare was not well laid . I fear my self .  By lakin but I must not , though I find  But weak matter against it . — This my courage !  I hear of none , my self excepted , Sir .  What make I here ? I shall undo my self .  I ther 's the mark my malice chiefly aims at ;  But then , he stands so near , I wound him too .  I feel that must not be . Art must be shewen here .  Never came Malice 'mong so sweet a people .  It knowes not how to look , nor I on them .  I shall too much I fear . —  O 't is the service that I ow you Sir .  O death , my hopes are blasted .  She lives , and he is lost to me for ever ,  I shall be straight discover'd too . False Love  Thou hast dealt loosely with me ; And Revenge  I re-invoke thy nobler spirit : Now  Possesse me wholly ; let it not be thought  I came and went off idly .  T is now determinate as fate ; and so  At the whole cluster of 'em . Bless me ha !  My father living ! Then the cause is dead  Of my revenge .  Sir take no thought for me , till my strict life  ( By making man , and the world meer strangers to me ,  In expiation of my late transgression  Gainst maiden modesty ) shall render me  Some way deserving th' honour of a husband . 