 We 'l help you out with it , and set it flying for you never doubt it .  Pox on ye peace .  O most melodious .  She is vanisht . Is 't not the Mountebanks Wife that was here ; and now come again to play some new merry tricks by herself .  Nay but this creature : What can she be ?  Yes , as we 'll beat it into you . But this woman , this musical woman , that set her self out to show so , I would be satisfied in her .  I vow — Peace . I 'le battoune thy teeth into thy tongue else ; she bears a stately presence . Thou never saw'st her before : Didst thou Toney ?  Young Pig was speaking of such a one to me , and that she was a Mumper .  Come , come ; we 'l in , we 'l in ; 't is one of our fathers buildings ; I 'le see the Inhabitants . Some money Clot . furnish I say , and quickly . — I vow —  What shall I ?  I vow , and I vow again , I 'le coyn thy brains . —  Come let 's appear civil , till we have our entrance , and then as occasion serves —  Who would you speak withal ?  Your Mistress , little one .  No ; but I would know her , that 's the business : I mean the musical Gentlewoman that was fidling , and so many in the What-doe-call't een now .  What-doe-call her ; 't is not come to that yet , prethee let me see and speak with her first .  What should we do here else ?  Will ye be quiet Whiskin ?  Nay , there 's but a Leash of us . How now ?  Who have we here ? Are these the far travel'd Ladies ?  O thou party perpale , or rather parboild Bawd .  Art thou travel'd cross the Seas from the Bankside hither , old Countess of Codpiece-row ?  Prethee what is she Madge ?  She has none of the best faces : but is she warrantable ; I have not had a civil night these three moneths .  O Madge how I do long thy thing to ding didle ding .  'T is like we shall . Now Lady of the Stygian Lake , thou black infernal Madge , begin the dismal story , whilst I begin the bottle .  Damyris stay . Her nick-name then is Dammy , so we may call her when we grow familiar : and to begin that familiarity , Dammy here 's to you . — drink .  Nick : only Nick , Madge there knows it .  I vow-witty . Yes Dammy , and my Sirname is Rookesbill , and so is my Fathers too : and what do you make o'th at ?  And I would he were nothing , so I had all he has : I must have tother glass to wash him out of my mouth , he furs it worse then Mondongas Tobacco . Here old Madge , and to all the birds that shall wonder at thy howletship , when thou rid'st in an Ivy-bush , call'd a Cart .  A pox thou wilt be stifled with Offal and Carret leaves before that day .  No Dammy I vow , not I to any breathing .  But my Fathet ; Pox rot ye , why do ye put me in mind of him again , he sticks i' my throat , now I 'le wash him a little further . — Here Brother Toney   There said you well Clotpoll : Here 't is —  Yes marry is it he forsooth ; he has built I know not how many houses hereabout , though he goes Dammy as if he were not worth a groat ; and all his cloaths I vow are not worth this hilt , except those he wears , and prayes for fair weather in , on my Lord Mayors Day ; and you are his Tenant , though perhaps you know it not , and may be mine ; therefore use me well : for this house and the rest I hope will be mine , as well as I can hope he is mortal , of which I must confess I have been in some doubt , though now I hope again , he will be the first shall lay his bones i' the new Church , though the Church-yard be too good  for him before 't is consecrated . So give me the to-the cup , for now he offends my stomack . Here 's to thee now Clotpoll .  I to the story , I vow I had almost forgot it ; and I am the worst at Sack in a morning : Dear Dammy to the story .  Troth and my head 's too full to hear it : But I 'le go out and quarrel with some body to settle my brains , then go down to Mich Crossewill to put him in mind of our meeting to day ; then if you will meet me at the Goat at Dinner , wee 'll have it all at large .  Dammy if I be not , may my father out live me .  This will be the bravest discovery for Mihill , the new Italian Bona Roba Catsoe .  Why Croswill Mich What , not up yet and be hang'd . Or ha ye a wench a bed wye . Is this keeping your home . Mihil runs to the door and holds it .  Break open the door , let me come to 't .  Your father 's a Clowterdepouch . Nay , I will come then , what Madamoiselle do you call father .  Come to the Goat Capricorne . We have the bravest new discovery .  I vow ?  You will not spoil all now 't is come so far ? will you ?  The old way , by watching of him , and keeping him high-flown a matter of fourty eight houres together .  I vvould vve could see him , to try vvhat good vve could do upon him .  No , she comes anon ; but is my affliction above still .  Prithee do not call him my father less he took better courses .  Well , remember Mr. Mihil , you have promised me half , if the old dogged fellow give her all , and you marry her .  You know I can spoile all when I list , but to shew my countenance in your cause .  I swear but you must not , that 's mine you know .  Whose man is not to be asked , nor scarce whose subject , now he is of our Brotherhood .  That may be granted .  I swear , I neither can , nor will grant that .  I swear .  I muse these Mumpers come not .  Drawer , ha ! where be those Rascalls ? ( Within ) By and by .  Are you one of 'em , sir ?  To intrude into Gentlemens privacies ? ha !  And what 's your qualitie ?  Can you drink before you lay your lips to 't  You are not satisfied , it seems , you Rascal , get you gone .  We 'll leave him in his qualiry for that constant vertue .  Of sack , 't is true here , take another , and wash the inside of your Throat . And let us hear your pipes in their right tune .  The praise of sack . Sing the praise of sack .  I vow , I will have sack .  Are your eares so quick ? I vow , I 'le dull 'em .  I say , a song of Sack .  Now you pump , do you ?  I vow , well-said .  I marvel at his stay .  O here comes news . How now pig ?  Must ? at whose suit !  Then the old Jew my father 's gone .  O , 't is his precise brother . But vvhere 's thy Mystresse , and Madama Damaris ? that they come not .  Thou hast such a vvit in this Clotpoll of thine . The Reckoning Drawer .  When we have further occasion , we 'll repair to your lodging .  40. sh. and 3. d. you 'l bate the 3. d. will you not ?  Give me your two peeces .  Well , I can hold it then .  And I but one , I vow .  Below the earth doest mean ? I am sure we have none above-ground .  Sirrah , before you have your money , fetch me a glasse of Beere . But canst thou sing this upon any subject .  But you have strange helps to your invention . I did note the rolling o' th' eye , and rubbing your Brows sometimes .  And withal , watch him if he stir hand or eye , especially the eye .  Yes , yes , for the more grace of the Song .  ( Within ) why Bettie , Frank , you mankinde Carions you . I vow , open the door , will you both kill one another , and cozen the Hangman of his fees ?  ( Within ) why wenches , are ye wild ? break open the doores .  Hold , what 's the devil in ye .  Can no blunter tooles then these serve to take down your furies ?  As Hector 'twixt the hosts of Greece and Troy ,  When Paris and the Spartane King should end  Their nine yeares warres , held up his brazen lance .  In signal , that both Armies should surcease ,  And hear him speak . So let me crave your audience .  Dear Bettie be advis'd , and Frank , forbear  Thy thirst of Sisters blood . Whilest I rip up  The folly of your strife . Your cases both  Have been laid open to me . You contend  For love of a lewd Citizen , that sleights ,  Nay more , disdaines , nay more , desies you both .  Tony can tell , Mun Clotpoll also knows  The words he spake , that you were both poor whores ,  Not poor alone , but foule infectious harlots .  And that he wears your mark with pain and sorrow ,  Hopelesse to claw them off . With constant purpose  Never to see you more , unlesse to greet .  Your bumpin buttocks with revengeful feet .  Busse and be friends . Busse , or I 'le baste ye both , I vow .  Than how , Sir ?  'T is a plain case , your cloak must answer it at the bar , Sir . Drawer , away with it .  I vow , do but look after it , till we be gone , and these shall claw thine eyes out .  I vow you shall have cuffes .  Damosels forbear ; and you , forbear your noise . I vow , I 'le slit your wistle else . You shall give him due correction civilly , and we will make him take it civilly . Sit you down Sir .  I vow , mum .  Mum , hold your tongue still in your mouth , lest I halifax it with your teeth .  Do yon know this man ?  These are the Sisters that his lavish tongue so lewdly did deprave .  No , they shall beat you first . And mark me well . Do thou but stir an hand or foot , or raise a voice that may be heard to the next room , well cut thy weasand . Now wenches take your course .  There , there .  To him Bettie , at him Frank ; there whores , there .  I vow , do you prate ? you shall have as much . Come , take the Chaire , Sir , the breeches shall bait him too .  I vow , they shall . To him and claw him , I 'le clapperclaw your sides else   I vow , some disguiz'd villain , and but for doing the State so good service , we would hang him presently without examination .  I vow , what canst thou be ?  Come all away then , Sirrah , thank this Gentleman , and pray for him at the end of your Songs hereafter .  O , are ye here Gallants ! I made all the haste I could , but was stayed , I vow , by the bravest sport , baiting of a fellow or two with our Pusse-cats here . I could e'ne find in my heart to marry 'em both for their valours .  What ? are you acquainted already ?  Never saw her before this morning , I , standing upon her Belconee .  You spell very modestly , sir . Your brother  I take it . But did you call her Cousin , sir .  Yes , in their tribe . But I thought he had been too holy for them . But Dammy —  You said you had a storie to relate , of dire misfortune . and of unquoth hearing . I come to hear your story , what stop you your eares at ? sir .  I vow thou liest , I call'd her Dammy , because her name is Damyris ,  Shall we have things and things ? I vow .  Great Damboys shrink , and give a little ground .  It shall go round .  Brethren sir , we are the Brothers .  How ? disguiz'd ones ?  I vow , I have so much vertue as to rebuke thee for lying . But we are brethren , sir , and as factious as you , though we differ in the Grounds ; for you , sir , defie Orders , and so do we ; you of the Church , we of the Civil Magistrate ; many of us speak i' th' nose , as you do ; you out of humility of spirit , we by the wantonnesse of the flesh ; now in devotion we go beyond you , for you will not kneel to a ghostly father , and we do to a carnal Mystresse .  Yes , I vow , and brought Fidlers along , but they must play i' th' next room , for here 's one breaks all the Fiddles that come in his reach . Come fir , will you drink , dance , and do as we do ?  I vow , thou art a brother after my own heart .  'T will prove an honour to our faction .  Brave .  I vow , this man has hidden things in him .  I vow then , a good orderly diet of nothing but sack for a week together , would revive it in him , and bring it to good again .  I vow . a wit .  I vow .  Would you speak with any here , sir ?  The company , sir , offends not you , I hope ; you see the worst of us .  I vow thy father talkes too much .  Mun Clotpoll , thou art dull .  Come , Dammy and the rest , be merry . I vow , we 'll sup together , and so at last hear all thy dismal story .  I mean he shall , and such an Audit make ,  As shall restore her honour from the stake .  What a drunken sot was I , that knew thee not all this while ? I vow , thy story pities me . I 'le marry thee , and turne thee to thy friends , for I am sure I have none that will keep thee for my sake .  Prithee Mun seek me a Priest .  There 's no starting , that Mihil has a fist over me . I vow , and thou wert not his Kinswoman , thou should to the Common yet .  I vow , not we .  I smell some trick .  Timorous thing ! what in our own Quarter ?  I would but see the carcass of authority prance in our Quarter , and we not cut his legs off . Welcome Tonie , what hast thou brought the word here to passe for the Reckoning .  My Vow is pass'd , and before you , sir , I confirm it . This is my wife . Anon , you shall perform the holy Ceremony ,  Father , you 'll see a brave experiment upon a Gentleman that has been a youth .  And since was grown one of the reformed , and we are now in practice to retrive , and bring him back to his first condition .  Hitherto we have . First , you saw he was laid defunct in Sack , next in his sleep , we have accoutred him in martial abiliments , and now we mean to wake him with alarmes shall affright the silly humour out of him , and render him his warlike faculty , or our Art failes .  No , Sack will do better . When he wakes he will be very dry , then a quart-draught of good Canarie will so screw him up . 'T is time 't were now in practice . So , softly , softly . We must but halfe wake him at first .  Here , drink it off , sir ,  ( Drinks )  Drum and Trumpet . An Alarm .  I vow , hold , are you mad ?  Upon their march , Captain , and we your officers : But rows'd you up to be in readinesse .  Sound Drum and Trumpet .  Thou canst not make that good , my father 's there .  Even unto the earth , sir , and humbled with as true a penitence , as son can be for wronging of a father , I beg your pardon and blessing . 