 Deare , honour'd father , I beseech you hear me .  In parting us you separate life from me ,  And therein act a real crueltie  On me your only childe , sharper then that ,  Which you can but pretend done by her father .  I cannot live from her .  You know , Sir , from our Infancie we have been ,  Bred up together , by your tender care  As we had been twin-borne , and equally  Your own ; and by a self-same education ,  We have grown hitherto , in one affection ,  We are both but one body , and one mind ,  What Gabriella was , I was , what I , was she .  And , till this haplesse houre , you have enjoyn'd me ,  Nay , charg'd me on your blessing , not to arrogate  More of your love unto my self , then her ,  I never knew brother , or sister , I ;  Nor my poor self , but in my Gabrella .  Then blame me not to love her , I beseech you  — Upon me knees .  She cannot , may not leave me .  VVhat mine own heart ? dear Sir .  It must be to my death then .  I do not like it Uncle .  We eat and lodge well ; and we weare good cloathes .  And keep our credit in the house we live in ,  But what we suffer in our reputation  Abroad , is dangerously doubtful .  But Uncle , for the time that you intend  To stay , I pray admit no new acquaintance ,  Nor any more , lest I for my escape  Venture a leap two stories deep .  But Uncle , though you have taught us courtly  Gypsie tricks .  That somewhat trench upon our modesties .  Pray let it not be thought we 'll sell our honesties .  I will see none .  Is this the habit of a Merchants Prentice ?  Has his great marriage turn'd my fathers house  Into a sumptuous Palace , that he keeps  Such costly men . Or doth the bravery  Of his late beauteous Bride require such gorgeous  Attendants ? Pray what office may you fill  About her person .  I 'le not endure the onset .  Yet there are graces in their looks methinks ,  That do invite my stay .  Are these your Civil Gentlemen , Landlady ?  You pronounce English well sir .  I understand you not .  O mine own heart ! how near were we both fallen  Into the Gulf of Ruine ?  Was ever such a Friend as this mine Vncle ?  Pretending us his children too , and call'd us daughters  To those he bargain'd with to sell our Maidenhead ?  And had the Monsieurs been as capable  Of our Virginities , as he was of .  Their moneys , how had we then resisted .  But did you note the vertue of the Gentlemen ?  When they were sensible of our feares and tears ,  How gently they desisted and with what humanity ,  When they perceiv'd how we had been betrayd ,  They pitied our conditions ; and woo'd homditly  Our loves in way of marriage . Provided that  Our births and fortunes might no way disparage  Theirs , being free and generous   Troth ( mine own heart ) 't is just the same with me .  I care not which I have . And mark a sympathy ,  How equally all our affections strike .  We both love them , they both love us alike .  But peace . Cash , though he has done us good service ,  Must not know all . How goes it within Cash ?  My father will fetch you home with an Inlash ,  One o'these dayes .  I with the Frenchmen , and my Uncle Strigood .  What an old devil is this ?  I hope I shall .  And some you know at home  For cozening their Masters .  O Rogue ! I 'le tell you more anon Cash .  And I am yours as firme as faith can binde .  'T is not my father , nor my Lady Aunt ?  Well , I am arm'd .  Noble sir , you are so exactly deserving in the opinion of all righteous judgements , that the least syllable of your faire testimony , is able to re-edifie the ruines of a decayed commendation .  I cannot but admire , Madam , your noble and illustrious Gratitude , that can give beauty to benefits of so low a birth and condition .  You 'll make my zeale hereafter , too bashful to serve your most curious acknowledgement .  You do but open a privie door to my thankful remembrance , Madam , for the bounty of your Squirrel and Paraquitoe .  And we . 