 She is gone forth , forsooth .  She went with my Lady Nestlecock , to bring Gabriella on her way they said .  I thank your Ladiship .  Droile , I think , she said .  The droile is now your brothers wife , Madam , and in that setting your Ladiships lavish tongue aside , as good a woman as your selfe , none disprais'd , ha .  Do you presume to call me drudge and droile , that am a Ladies Sister every day in the week ; and have been any time these three dayes , ha .  Cods so , and why troe ? because a Lady scornes to be a huswife , ha . If you be no huswife , I scorn to call  you Sister , I ; though my husband be your brother . From whence came you troe , ha ?  Boldface , ha ! Her brothers wife ▪ s a bold-face , but her face is not varnish't over , yet like his Ladysisters face , but it may be in time when she learnes the trick on 't , and have as many flies upon 't , though not so troubled with 'hem , as a bald mare at Midsummer , hah .  Do you say so .  He knows not that he is married agen .  He may at you ,  For your officiousnesse .  To thrust your self into unthankful offices .  In things concerne you not . Will you turne Matchmaker  For others un-intreated , 't is enough .  For you , I hope , that you have match't your selfe , ha .  Who else  Should talk or give you counsel but your wife ?  You did commend it in me against your Sister .  And I may better be familiar with you ;  Hah , are you not my husband ? I am sure  'T is not so long since we were married , that  You can forget it , or repent so soon .  I am not now your slave , to have my face  Wash't with your snuffes , nor to be kick't and trod on  VVithout resistance , nor to make you answers  Meerly with silent court'sies , run when you bid go  To fetch and carry like your Spaniel ,  In which condition I liv'd long enough ,  And was content until you freed me out on 't .  Now free I am , and will be a free woman ,  As you are a free-man , ha .  You wrong your wife in that .  I never beg'd  Nor mov'd a lip to be your wife , not I ,  You held my service portion good enough ,  And for my blood 't is no more base then yours ,  Since both are mixt in marriage .  I hope I may be bolder in mine own house .  So Madam , for the love I have found in yours ,  You shall be welcome thither , when y'  are sent for .  Yes sir , I dare without more leave taking , ha .  Ha .  You were best to kill her then , and then you 'll have no other course to take , unlesse you stay and be hang'd .  From my house and husband shall I ? from my possessions shall I ? And leave you all to spend in riot shall I ? No sir , I 'le stay and spend my share if you go to that , that will I . And make all flie as well as you , and you go to that , that will I , ha .  That which you were content to drudge withal , I am too sure o' that . The drudge you speak of is no worse then your own wife , I am too sure o'th at .  Did you not say for better , for worse ? And if 't were worse then 't is , 't were all too good for you . And that I hope I shall finde some good Friend to know .  I trust you have found the drudge to be a woman fit to content a man , and if you grant not that , some better man perhaps shall be a Judge , betwixt you and the drudge .  Hornes . I think , you said . If 't were so 't were too good for you . Cannot your own wife content you , ha ?  That shall be tri'd .  Mrs. Match-ill indeed , to be so match't .  I was better content in my povertie . I have not been my selfe , Gentlemen , since he married me .  No sir , I 'll stay with you , and make you as poor before I have done wi' ye , as I was before you had me Gent.  I shall not be my self till then .  Yes , and I 'le call him servant , Gentlewomen use it .  Pray servant help me here a little . Do so much  As winde up my Jack for me , my Watch I would say .  Nothing , my husband ga't me .  Good servant take it with you then to the Jack-makers , I would say , the Watch-makers . Come Gentlemen , shall we have a crash at cards ?  I can play a many old games . One and thirty bone-ace , Tickle me quicklie , and my Ladies hole , and sichie . But you shall teach me new ones , though I lose money for my learning , Gleek and Primero , Gresco saut , primofistula , I know all by hear-say . Come let us have a bout at somewhat . I have money enough .  Your pleasure quickly , I have left  My company , my servant , and my friend yond ,  Sawing against one another at Corne the Caster ; till I come to 'hem .  My servant , and my friend and I are e'ne all one .  They are the goodest Gentlemen , the best company .  Yes , and my servant playes for me now in my absence , as farre as ten pieces go that I left him . My plow goes there , though I am here .  I am not so ill a huswife as you imagine . And my friend , and my servant have promis'd to carry me abroad , to this town , and to that town , and tother town , and whow , I know not whither . And my servant will have me to Hide-Park he sayes , to see and to shew all , as well as the brave Gallants .  And my friend will carry me to a whatdeecall , a new Academy , where I shall see the rarest musick and dancing , he sayes , and learn the finest Complements . and other courtly qualities that are to be had for money , and such instructions for the newest fashions   But not altogether , I hope . I would not win so great a game , without some sport in playing it .  O , are you coming ?  And can you think the way to purchase peace  Is by a war with me ? hah , you are cozen'd .  Do you think your domineering looks , or noise ,  Or blowes , can fright me into quietnesse ,  Or that you shall have honour by abasing  Your wife ?  Hah .  I have found the man .  He 's loth to bring it out ; I 'le close w' ye .  You 'll be content so , I will suffer you  To bear a loud command o're me in publick ,  That I shall carrie it in private . Is 't not so ?  You 'll give me leave to beat you  In private then .  But if I chance to give you a rap or two ,  Or now and then a nip , and you strike me  Again , I 'le strike you some way else , as you  Would not be struck . And so observe my carriage .  The Gentlemen are coming .  Sir , I perceive my errour , and repent it .  Promising you in all my after life ,  To be a faithful and obedient wife .  Truly yes .  I am no such woman as you took me for ,  With Mr. Matchils leave you may be welcome  Home to his house in good and seemly sort .  Put pray expect no further entertainment  Then he shall well allow of .  Would I had you within to perform covenants .  Yes , I will only seem to do it .  Gentlemen , I must about my house-affaires .  So , I take my leave .  And Mr. Matchil , at your own good pleasure .  Having in private something to impart to you ,  I would entreat your presence .  Your eare before I go good Mr. Matchil .  That is a private touch , sir , of the businesse .  It will be worth consideration , sir .  I humbly take my leave .  Since y' are not yet dispos'd to enter , sir .  One word more , Mr. Matchil , if you please .  Again , I take my leave .  I can turne taile too , as well as the great Lady . Hab.   No ruder then your self , hah .  Come servant , come away .  Nay , and she go to that , I hope I can ,  Look as ill favouredly as her selfe , or a better  Woman then she , and stay in spight of her , hah .  Pray Madam let me serve you truly truly .  I 'le be your servant for a yeare and a day   I am your servants servant , and will serve  Under your Ladiships Cook to do you service .  In sooth , 't is sooth , forsooth the tale I tell you .  I am short of good .  Gentle I grant I am , for I bite no body ,  Command me then sweet Madam .  I am no Pope , for your sake would I were .  O not so .  I wish it could forsooth , would it were better for you .  Where have you been servant ?  My Lady , I think you said .  Are you so stout sir , hah ?  My Lady mindes you not , and I can learn  To give you a broad side too .  My husband , I think you said What a foule house these washing dayes make ?  I say that I am humbled on my knees .  I beg your pardon . 