 I heard he did so ; and that in lieu , by way of  Exchange , he brings up the daughter of the Parisien that breeds his sonne .  But is that daughter so exquisite a creature , as is this Merchant Matchills own whom you so much extoll ?  Troth , and that 's friendly spoken , Mus .  Peace , prythee hold thy peace .  Friend Cash ! Is your Master , Mr. Matchill yet at leisure to be seen ?  I feard some ill . What is the matter ?  His daughter will prove a bouncing match then .  Are his faire daughter , and the French-borne  Damsel there to be seen ?  W'have heard your cause of sorrow .  Y'  are happy Sir .  No , he means so vertuous .  D' ye think he has not tried her ? There 's a question   And yet she 's chaste and vertuous withal .  In your own house , sir ?  Y'  are Lord here , and may command me , sir . And so my service to you .  But this is not the rare obedient peece  That you will marry ?  Could your faire breast harbour a bloody thought ?  But 't was enough to make  A very true mans fingers itch .  He has made his daughter by 't a match worth nothing .  And there your hope is gone .  'T is well , sir .  And now to let you know that I can live  Without the helps of such cool friends as you .  I 'le shew you a present probability .  Doest see yond pretty mumping peece i' th' shop there ?  One o' th' fourty , boy ,  That renders tribute in to my Exchecquer .  How plain you are . Not I , not I .  That 's her fool-husbands word .  Let it sussice that I have seen her thrice .  And that I lay with , drink , and weare her money .  O 't is the sweetest Rogue .  I 'le tell you that , walking by chance as now ,  Before her shop , where a young Gentleman  Was bargaining , he call'd me by my name ,  I never lost by that .  She then demands , Is your name Askall , sir ?  I answer , Yes . Pray of what countrey , sir ?  I told her ; when a sudden flaming blush  Did in her face betray the fire of love ,  That was at th' instant raging in her breast ,  She look't me through and through . Sigh'd , turn'd away .  Then look't again under her hat-brims thus .  And thus I nimbly catch't her with mine eye .  Sir , what I have , I have . I gave a leere  With that same eye that made her turne her whites up .  Why do you think a woman 's so quickly brought to th' point ?  I saw she was struck , and thus I gave her line  To play withal . I whisper'd in her eare ,  The way to finde my lodging and my service .  Next morning early comes a message to me ,  Inviting me to dinner : Chear and welcome  Plenteously flowed ; and sir , before we parted  Upon some private conference , twenty pieces  Were clutch't into this hand , but with a caution  To be discreet and thrifty of her purse ,  And keep a friend in store . I have been modest ,  And have not struck her since , but for ten more .  I le hold you ten uh that  See she has spied me .  I come not now to buy .  But in plain termes to borrow . Do you not know me ?  She 's cautious before thee . Walk off a little .  Now you may hear me , Lady .  My intimate friend : I 'le trust him with my life .  I do not boast of yours .  No , nor ten more I hope ; and that 's the summe  I would entreat : all makes but fourty pound .  I 'll pay thee like a Gentleman , as I am one ,  Either in money ; or doest hear me , Rogue ,  In what shall please thee better . Come , be wise ,  Thy husband 's a dull ducking Gamester . And  Kennels his water-dog in Turnbull-street .  We 'll answer his delights with better sport .  No , 't is my ambition .  When shall we walk to Totnam ? or crosse o're  The water , or take Coach to Kengington  Or Padington ; or to some one or other  O' th' City out-leaps for an afternoon ,  And hear the Cuckow sing to th' purpose ? when ?  O no ; fie no : you cannot think how close  And careful I will be . Heark in thine eare .  Yes , but I 'le pay thee better . Therefore tell me , when we shall meet and have a spirt abroad .  Pish , let him stay .  By this good tongue , no more then the unbegotten Hans that I mean to clap into thy Kelder .  Nor ever shall : doest think I am so foolish  To talk away my hopes ? No , thou art my Faery ,  Pinch me to death when I discover thee .  Yet 't was to purpose .  As here you may behold , but I must make no words on 't .  She has enjoyn'd me that . O 't is a cunning Gypsie .  Troth , to tell you true .  My conscience will not beare 't , I cannot be  So ungrateful to receive a courtesie ,  But to acknowledge it .  'T is rather to be fear'd she may break mine .  She 's a tight strong dock't Tit .  Why ? to make Tradeswomen .  For Gentlemen that want money and commodity .  You know the thing that I call father-in-law ,  That had my mothers whole estate , and butied her ,  Allowes me nothing .  My courses are sweet courses , they serve me to live upon .  But why these cloudy looks ? do not you like my courses ? ha !  I there 's a hasty match clap't up . You ask't  Why Tradesmen marry , there 's a marriage now !  A humorous Coxscombe that could never laugh  In all his last wives dayes ; and since her death  Could ne're be sad . For him to marry his Malkin  For poor and course obedience . Well . I hope  To take my course in his house yet for all .  Her boasted chastity and obedience .  What , not for money ?  She can pay well and her uglinesse cannot fright me  I can do that work winking .  Tell not me  What any woman can or cannot be ,  You 'll give me leave to try my fortune with her ,  Mystris , be not so violent .  That I like well , I 'le be her first man .  Better still .  She holds up that point stoutly .  If you but yield an inch he treads upon your neck , I will not give an under spur-leather for you . But bear it out bravely , and I 'll be your servant .  Yet this sir , is the rare piece of obedience  You boasted of , and said you would defie  The devil to dishonest her , I am sorry  Your judgement led you into such an errour ,  Already she 's my Mystresse .  Do so , Mystresse .  Troth , sir , I did but jest . You have my pity .  Her Jack ▪ she 's in the Kitchin still .  A pretty Watch this , Mystresse , what did you pay for 't .  Pity the Spring is broke , but I can get it mended .  And I 'le make shift to ease you of some on 't .  And not by the eares : that 's wonderful .  He has fetch 't her about , it seems .  You have wonne the field , it seems , yet I may hope  I have not lost a Mystresse .  And do you say so Mystresse ?  I have lost her .  He makes her tremble .  H' has brought her to her servile old obedience .  Well , you are a happy man that have o' her .  Yet she desires to have you again in private .  Ha , do you run ?  I 'le lay all the tricks I have against his brags .  She masters him in private , and that all  This shew of her obedience is dissembled .  My hope revives again ; we must abroad with her .  But tell me , what new Academy 's that  You told her of , I understand not that yet .  Where is it ? who are the Professours ,  And what the Arts ?  And no drabbing ?  I cannot .  Who Camelion ?  And could you keep this from me all this while ,  Till I am there , each step 's a tedious mile .  And do so , Mystresse , give her a broad-side .  Well-said , we 'll make our partie good , I warrant you .  And so to all I hope , chiefly to you ,  Good Madam Dowager , hoping in good time  I may get good , by doing much good upon you  How likes your Lop my complement .  Still in the Kitchin-dialect .  I brought her , Madam ,  T' advance my suit to you .  But sir , your Gentlewomen ,  That past upon our entrance where are they ?  Umh — private practice . Well , I shall know all .  What do you keep 'hem up like Nuns ,  To sing and not be seen ?  I wonder sir , 'Mongst all your Arts and Sciences  You have so little judgement in a face ,  Does his mouth appear wide to you ? what false glasse  Are your eyes made of ?  Slander is no offence then . He has injur'd ,  By breathing an aspersion on that face ,  The life of beauty , and the soule of sweetnesse .  Wide mouth Y — .  I 'le stop .  This mouth that knowingly sayes he dares except  Against a tittle of his face or person .  But as he is an ignorant stranger , and  I must respect the company . I forbear .  Pardon my plainnesse , Madam .  I never was so ta'ne with Masculine beauty .  And till I winne a woman that is like him ,  Or has been like him , I can but languish .  Umh , 't is a hard matter to bring those ends together .  By no meanes , Mystresse , I do but sooth her up to jeare her for vou .  If you out-stay her not , you lose your honour .  She 'll brag she has out-look't you . If you start .  'T is well done , Mystris , Madam shall I tell you .  But I would pray you not to storme , but laugh at it .  She sayes you are no match for me .  And knowing I aim at none but some great widow .  Tells me she knows her husband 's but short-liv'd .  I fear she means to break his heart .  No words , good Madam .  O Camelion .  Where is your wife ? I hope your je lousie .  Locks her not up .  Askal Madam .  My name is Askal . But the R in Master  Runs into so , that sometimes it sounds doubtful .  I must be Knighted , Euphoniae gratia .  Sir Valentine Askal will come fairly off .  Do you begin to boggle ,  And when I send for twenty pieces , do you  Send me but ten ?  I pray ,  What have I had in all by your account .  What 's that to the free pleasure of my body  Which must afford you sweet and lustie payment ?  You froward Monkey . But perhaps you ha' got  Some new-found Horn-maker , that you may think ,  Deserves your husbands money better , for  Doing his Journey-work , one o' the Monsieurs ,  Or both perhaps i' th' house here under 's Antlers ,  It must be so , why else of all the town ,  Must I be one o' th' last that must take notice  Of your new College here , your brazen face College  Of feates and fine fagaries ? do you grow weary of me ?  Will tother fifty pound undo thee , I have lost  All that I had within among your Monsieurs .  And you must yield supply , or lose a friend  Of me .  No lesse . All makes ( you know ) but a just hundred .  And there I 'le stick ; and stick close to thee too ,  Else all flies open . What care I who knows  Your credits breach , when you respect not mine .  Enquire among your neighbours .  Take heed , sir , what you say .  Eene now you said she was too open , sir .  Y' are in two tales already .  Pish , Honi soit .  He jealous , he defies it .  Will you not heare your Cock , your Nansie ,  Nanny Cock .  Brave wench .  I hope she 'll humble him so ,  That he shall keep our chamber-door for us ,  While we get boyes for him . A dainty Rogue ,  She tempts me strongly now . Would she would call me  About it presently .  I 'le streight amongst 'em .  That bargaine 's yet to make . Though before him  I may say much , I will not stand to that  For all the wealth he has .  No , no , I cannot safely , for in that  I shall surrender up my interest  In 's house ; and he may warne me out on 't . No ,  Take heed o' that . 'T is not his tother hundred  Shall make me slip that hold .  Yes , when you first cast your good liking on me , and I told you .  O' th' Isle of Wight : And what o' that ?  You wrong me basely , to say I call him any thing ; for he gives me nothing .  I had done ill to venter ( as I ha' done )  On Salisbury plain else . Hah , what 's here  That daughter , I sent you order to receive for me an hundred pounds . If you finde that your brother the Spendthrift Val . Askal , ( Zookes that I ) be in any want , furnish him according to your own discretion .  I am Val . Askal , where 's the money ? My hundred  pound , ha' you't .  He had a daughter by my mother , but  He plac'd her out a childe , I know not where  Where 's that young whore trow ? Hannah I think  her name was . Hang me if I know directly .  Do'st think I did not know thee .  And ask you blessing too . Your hundred pound Has bound me to 't . Heaven blesse you , Here 's halfe one still , yes , and the better halfe , for tother's spent .  I would be one . And here 's a good rich widow  Now in the house , your countenance may help me ,  My Sister and my Brother both can tell you ,  How orderly and civilly I live .  That Merchants Sister , and a Lady sir .  I would not have him heare .  This now savours of Complement indeed .  God-a-mercy boy .  No matter , let him go t' untrusse perhaps .  That is my Cue . A young well govern'd man  Were fitter , Madam .  I speak to my Lady .  Nay , 't is no Jest Now Ladies let me tell you ,  And sad Sir Swithin ; pray lend all your eares . 