 I tanck you , sir .  I have bid Fraunce adieu to come and learn  De English very well ; I speak a lietel ,  But de English Mesteresse can teach de best .  I shall be glad to take my commencements ,  Or my first Lessons from these Ladies lips .  O sweet , O delicate .  Ladies , if you will breath into me English ,  I shall , if you please , put Fransh into you .  Une pour l'antre , dat is one for anoder .  Il E'vray Monsieur Papilion , I kisse before , then you mose kisse behind .  But let me pray my tardinesse be excus'd  O wee dats de best . Doe is de ting  De Fransh man loves : If all your both two daughters  Shew all ; all makes but more desire to do .  Speak I no good English , Madamoiselle ?  You no understand me ,  Because you tinck I lie . But if you lie  With me , I make you understand me presently .  And we for you Alloun al Egremant Alloun  Monsieur Papillion pour l' honour de France .  'T is all very good Monsieur Papillica Essontes  Mon Amy.   And agree for me .  Agree poor tout .  Wee wee All , but for try . Trimount , trimount .  No more , but all for try : no man can tinck ,  But 't was too very moshe to take two hundred  Crowns for two pusillages , no , no was but  For try : but and she had not squeek and scrash too  Like to do leetel chat , I had Trimount  One , two , tree , five time , for all your try .  All very good .  All very good ; but I would see thee first .  VVhat Ladies will come here to practise complement .  To which we are de witnesse . Be so for us ,  I am her husband , And she is my wife ,  Speak you .  For that .  We 'll send for one Minister that shall marry  Us all at once . One kisse till then shall serve .  A leetel in de honest way will serve ,  But he shall know no-ting .  The first is the due carriage of the body ,  The proper motion of the head , hand , leg ,  To every several degree of person ,  From the Peasant unto the Potentate ;  To your inferiours how and when to use the Nod ,  The Hum , the Ha , the Frown , the Smile ,  Upon the fit occassion ; and to your equals ,  The exactest , newest , and familiar motions  Of eye , of hand , of knee , of arme and shoulder ,  That are in Garbe , in Congee , Crindge , or Shrug ,  In common Courtesie , or Complement ,  Lastly , for your Addresses to Superiours .  The Honours , Reverence , or Obeysances ,  Proper unto the quality or estate  Of person whatsoever . And so much  For carriage and behaviour . In the next place  You shall have rules for the more graceful wearing  Of your Apparel , with the natural Reasons ,  Why some mans hat does better in his hand  Then on his head , and why his coat hangs neater  Upon his elbow , then upon his back ,  As also Reasons for Tunes bringing up .  And marriages , together of the fashions  Of man and woman , how his Caller , and her  Black-bag , came on together ; how his pocket-comb  To spruce his Perrule , and her Girdle-glasse ,  To order her black pashes , came together ;  How his walking in the streets without a cloak  And her , without a man came up together ,  Of these , and of a hundred more the like .  We shall demonstrate reasons and instructions .  Shall render you most graceful in each fashion .  The next are skills in instruments , song and dancing   Yes . I shall bring his Mout to it . But his Mont is yet a leetel too wide . But he shall have some of de water datde woman use for anoderting , to bring it better together , and he shall speak like de Fransh Lady .  Begar Monsieur , you shall no point out mouth ,  No , nor out-face the Frensh man with your great Bull-beef , and Mustard English looks . 