 Now cease our Drums , and furle our Ensignes up :  Dismiss the Souldiers , hostile Armes surcease ,  Whiles we rejoyce , safe in these Armes of Peace .  The King and Sforza , Sforza and the King ,  Equal at least , and sometimes three notes higher ,  Sound Sforza's name then doth the Kings : the voyce  Of the wild People as I pass'd along  Threw up his praises neerer unto Heaven  Ever methought then mine : but be it so ,  He has deserv'd well , now let me again  Embrace the happie comforts of my life .  Through deadly dangers , yea through death it self ,  I am restor'd unto my Heaven on Earth ,  My wife and Son : a thousand blessings on thee .  Say , dearest life , whose prayers I know have been  Successful to me in this doubtful War ,  How welcome am I ?  Are you one of his great Admirers too ?  The world will make an Idol of his Valour ,  While I am but his shadow : I le but think on 't ,  Indeed he 's worth your favour , he has done wonders .  You do forget your self .  Nay I have done .  Gonzago , you and I have chang'd no words yet ;  I have brought Victory home , which may perhaps  Be checkt at when my heat shall fall to ashes .  How will you maintain your Fathers quarrels ore his Grave ?  This is more and worse  Then all the rest : the childe has spoken plainly ,  I had been nothing without Warlike Sforza :  I le make him nothing , and no longer stand  His Cypher that in number makes him ten .  My Lords , my thanks to you for your due care  In my late absence .  I have found you faithful .  There 's a State-Rime now : but Horatio ,  Has not Petruccio visited the Court  Since our departure ?  Now he is in his Fit .  Still Sforza !  There is an Exception wrung out ,  Send for him speedily .  And upon your Allegiance  Which you so boast of , let me have him here ,  And very speedily ; I le have your head else .  Look to it ,  She Sforza's Daughter , say you ?  She 's a right handsome one : I never knew he had a Daughter .  Sforza's absence , I fear you mean .  O did you so ?  Very good .  I like her strangely .  Comely Ambition .  Come Sforza , Welcome to Court , so is your  Daughter too , I have tane notice of her : O fairest , welcome .  Come you both with me this night , wee l Feast :  Pray bid us welcome all , as but one Guest .  Her Father hath surpriz'd her then ?  But he must not do 't , she is too sweet Flavello , and too fit for my embraces , to be snatch'd away .  How , my carefull Agent ?  Brave metal'd wench !  I like her better still .  That word makes thee a Queen .  And that costs you your Head .  Treason ! a Guard ! Treason ! &c.   Lay hold on Sforza , the dangerous Traytor .  Away with him , see he be kept close Prisoner .  Flavello , see that his daughter have convenient Lodging .  Let not a word come from him : hence , away .  VVhat a most dangerous estate even Kings do live in ?  VVhen those that we do lodge so neer our Breast  Study our Death , when we expect our Rest .  MY Lords and loyal Peers .  This is a Cause , the which , but for fair Order ,  By which I am constrain'd to be a Judge ,  Would rather drive me to a mourning Closet  Then to this Seat ; to shew my equal grief  Against the Crime and Shame of the Delinquent .  I see y' are all amaz'd , and cannot marveil  At your Astonishment , who do suffer with you  In the great Change Honour compels me to ,  Together with Religion , fairly urging  To an high point of Justice , which to utter  Draws faintness from my words , chilling my Blood  Like the departing Breath that separates Life .  For such I held her , and so many yeers  Retain'd her in the Closet of my Heart ,  Its self-Companion : that till these proofs ,  VVhich now like daggers by compulsive wounds  Have made their passage , she could ne'er have parted .  The Proofs you see are plain ,  That she was found — Pray speak it for me .  And that she sought the Life of fair Alinda  By Sword and Poyson both : and of that Cup  'T is like my self had tasted ,  For my supposed love to that wrong'd Lady .  Our Laws of Sicilie are so well rebated  VVith Clemencie , and Mercie , that in this Case  They cut not Life from one of Royal Blood ,  Onely take off ( as is on her perform'd )  All Dignities , all Titles , all Possessions ,  All means to live , even to her naked hands .  And such , Eulalia , now is your condition .  Now to this Censure , for due Orders sake ,  And for vvhich end this Parliament vvas call'd ;  Your Voyces are requir'd : do ye all approve it ?  VVhat say you , Lodovico ?  Nay , stay Eulalia , I have yet a Business  I would have pass the general Consent  Of this Assemblie , in which your Voice is useful .  Flavello ?  Let your amazement cease , and now perceive  My Lords in general , that I your King  Am Subject to this all-deserving Lady ,  And do require you not alone to hear  What I can say , but without all denial  That you approve , confirm what I will say .  I am by law no less then your consent  Divorc'd , and free from all impediment  To make my second choice in Marriage ,  And therefore crave Alinda for my wife ,  And that immediately we solemnize  Our Marriage , and her Coronation .  I hope none rates our will or his own life  So meanly , as to give least contradiction .  You Sir , come from that Woman .  I le shew him a way to give her thanks .  Gonzago ?  Put forth that woman :  Do it without grudge , out of the Court ,  I mean to seek her way . Do you refuse ?  Away with her .  And let it be proclaim'd according to th' extremitie of Law our Censure be observ'd .  And now to your consent : have I it yet  For Marriage with Alinda ? If you are pleas'd ,  Then call us King and Queen .  T is well : on to the ceremonies then . Kings were  But common men , did not their Power get fear .  I will not onely have you guiltless , Sir ,  But free from least suspect ; let but a spark  Of Discontent appear upon your Look ,  I 'll rip the hollow cave that holds the fire ,  And with Death quench it .  Ha! my Alinda , he 's no Son of mine ,  That with lesse Adoration dares look up  On thy Divinity , then the Aegyptians  Gave to the Sun it self : but an out-cast Bastard ,  And of the daring Giants ignorant Nature ,  That war'd against the Gods .  O thou art gentle , and the life of Sweetness :  Come , my Alinda , I was calling you  To our intended Journey to Nicosta ,  Where solemnly I will perform my Vow ,  To grant the three demands I promis'd you ,  In the full view of our Nobility .  Which by the Custome of my Predecessors  Have ratified and confirm'd the Power  Of Queens , and made them absolute : have you thought  To ask things worthy of your Dignity ,  Wherein I fully may declare my Bounty ?  O you are modest : but ask home , Alinda .  Thou art all Goodness : Come , all Friends , Gonzago :  But thank her Clemency .  No news of Lodovico yet , Horatio ?  Because you fear all horned Beasts .  I know thy Loyalty : but as for Lodovico ,  How was my Judgement wrong'd in him !  I thought my self as safe in that mans Counsel —  Yet methought he had  A kinde of slyness in his Countenance .  That still methought I had a Genius  That check'd my forward love , and did inform me  That he would prove disloyal : and for that cause ,  To speak plain truth , I never lov'd him truely .  Yet 't was given out you lov'd him .  And that he was your yoak-fellow in the State .  Here 's a true Statesman now !  Go , send Gonzago to me .  Go , call him to me .  Wait without Horatio .  Gonzago ?  Did you attempt  Against my strict command to visit Sforza ?  You are a Traytor .  What was your purpose ?  Well Sir .  My self for that was his Accuser ;  How durst you then make a scruple at it ?  Suppose he had confess'd it ?  And say  He had confess'd that too ?  VVas that your resolution ? but suppose  He had denied all ?  Sirrah , you are  His Bastard , not my son , in doing this .  Within there !  Horatio , would you think it ? this young stripling  Takes part against me with that Traytor Sforza .  Think so ? I know it .  I knew it not till now .  Convey him from my sight , and let our Marshal  Petruccio take him to safe custody ,  Till our further pleasure .  Hence with him I say .  How cheers my love ? what ominous aspect  Hath wrought this sad Eclipse upon that Beautie ,  VVhose radiancie onely is my life ?  Cast by this veil of sadness : quit my fears ,  And from my Browes wipe off a score of years .  No ? what must then remove it ? or dispell  These Clouds , that from the anguish of thy heart  Do cast this shadow ore my happiness ?  Can I neglect  A duty that belongs to my Alinda ?  Speak it again : and by my first nights bliss  I had with thee , by this kiss , and by this ,  I le treble in performance all my promises .  She will not name 't again :  Her last request was for the head of Sforza ,  Her arrogant proud Father , whose perversness  Checq'd at her due promotion ; and whose life  Swolne up with Popularitie , was my danger ,  Threatning no less then ruine on my State .  She will not name 't again , poor tender soul ,  Lest she might fall into th' interpretation  Of an unnatural child : yet for my safetie ,  She suffers in desire to have it done .  I have prevented her desire , 't is done :  I know Petruccio his Antagonist ,  Who had my warrant and Signet for it ,  VVould not be slack in th' execution .  Come , sweet , be fearless : that which your mild goodness  Is now so timerous to name , is done .  What she ?  Sforza , my dearest life , th' unnatural Homicide  That sought thy life and mine , is put to death .  VVas it not your Desire ?  Here comes sure Testimony : speak Petruccio ;  I will not ask , Is 't done ? but speak the manner  How Sforza di'd .  Nay Alinda ,  You must not be so sad : your gentle sorrow  In those obsequious Tears express'd , shew nature  And Filial pietie as he was your Father :  But think upon your wrongs , my dangers , and your own .  How means my love ?  Sweet , be content .  Nay dear Alinda , do but think —  O torment !  You have awak'd me from a Lethargie  In which I was confounded : now I see  She and mine Honour cannot live at once :  She dies , Alinda .  Hee 's also doom'd already , my Alinda .  Thy wisdom inspir'd me : all shall be  ( Be thou but my Alinda ) rul'd by thee .  How died the Boy ?  My Son , my Son ? you urge the name of Son  To work remorse within me , when I ask  How died that Bastard Boy ; no Son of mine .  Did he say so ?  This Boy yet might be mine , though Sforza might have wrong'd me by the By .  Well , well , you wept , return'd , and found him dead in 's Bed you say .  No more .  It seems he wept and died .  Prithee no more : I cannot though forget  My threatnings were too sharp : I must forget it .  I charge you that you leavy up our Army  Against those Rebels that we hear give succour  Unto the wretched cause of all my mischiefes ,  That hated ill-liv'd woman .  The matter ? speaks ; how does the Queen ?  What fearst thou ? speak the worst I charge thee .  What means my love ?  I have given order with all speed I could .  I fear her wits are craz'd indeed . Alinda ,  Hear me gentle love .  I see distraction in her face .  Indeed Alinda ; —  Examine his offence , my dear Alinda .  Sweet , weigh but his offence .  Go from her sight Petruccio ; levie up our Forces ,  And let the Boy Gonzago be embowell'd ,  And sent as a forerunner of our Furie  Unto that Witch , contriver of these woes .  'T is a disease in her that must be sooth'd :  Sweet , thou shalt have his Head .  Go in , it shall be brought thee .  What wild Affections do in women raign !  But this a Passion past all President .  O 't is meer Madness , mix'd with Divellish cunning ,  To hurl me upon more and endless mischiefes :  It has awak'd me to the sight of those  My fury ( sprung from Dotage ) hath already  Laid in my Path , grim Spectacles of horror ,  The blood of Sforza , and that tender Boy :  O let me think no further , yet stay there :  To plunge at first into too deep a Sense  Of soul-afflicting terrours , drowns the Reason ,  And stupifies the Conscience , which delivers  Us over to an insensibilitie  Of our misdeeds , and of our selves : just Heaven !  Afford me light to see I am misled :  But let it not as lightning blast mine eyes ,  Confound my Senses , make me further stray ,  For ever coming back to know my way .  O Horatio ! shee 's lost , shee 's lost , Horatio .  What dost thou think ?  What dost thou think of Loyaltie now ?  What terrible , what hideous noise is this ?  Kill him for Sforza , Sforza ; kill him , kill him .  What art thou ? speak : hadst thou the voice of Hell ,  Denouncing all the Furies in 't , I dare yet hear thee ; speak .  What of Petruccio ?  Shall I then with the Prophetique Spirit of a King  Speaks of Petruccio ? he is turn'd Traytor ,  And animates the Souldiers against me ,  Upon the discontent Alinda gave him  Now in her Fury : is 't not so ?  The cry comes neerer still : what does he mean ,  To bring my Army on to Massacre  Me in my House ?  Is then his Loyaltie become his danger ?  Left you him in that distress ?  Thou art a Souldier , art not ?  Me thinks I should remember , but I le trust thee .  My Fortune is more desperate then his :  I am beset and circled in with mischiefes .  Way-laid with heaps of dangers every where :  Yet I will on : Kings were not made to fear .  I le fetch him off , and the more readily ,  For my misprision of his Loyaltie .  Could I think that man false ?  How comes this Fury rais'd amongst ye Souldiers ?  Have you forgot my Laws and Person too ?  Dare you both judge and execute this man ?  I le give you all your Pardons , and him Honour ,  To make that true . Sfor.  Your Kingly word is taken .  Noble Petruccio , thou art disengag'd :  And if the temper of the Kings high Anger  Blow still above his Justice , let it crush  This cloud that holds a shower of innocent blood ,  Willing to fall and calm his violent fury .  Sforza !  I am all wonder : now this man appears  The Mansion and habitual Seat of Honour ;  Of which he seems so full , there cannot be  An Angle in his breast to lodge so base  An Inmate as disloyaltie : if so ,  How was Eulalia false ? or how Gonzago ,  That tender Boy , the fruit of lawless lust ?  There I am lost again : Great Power , that knowest  The subtletie of hearts , shew me some light  Through these Cymmerian mists of doubts and fears ,  In which I am perplex'd even to distraction :  Shew me , shew me yet the face of glorious Truth ; where I may read  If I have err'd , which way I was misled .  Thy news ?  Art thou distracted too ?  O 't is fearful !  No more , Horatio : I find that my credulitie  Has been wrought on unto my much abuse ,  And Sforza now appears an honest man .  Back Souldiers , to your dutie : learn of me  Hereafter how to judge with equitie .  Now in the midst of my soul-frighting objects ,  I cannot but applaud your mutual Friendship .  O that mischance propitiously might be  A light to reconcile my thoughts and me .  No ? where is Flavello ?  From whence art thou ?  Peace , no more :  I find the Province Loyal .  See Sforza , see Petruccio , what Lodovico  That trustie and true-hearted Lord has wrote me :  He has ended all my doubts , good man .  I , do you note the Passages ?  Yes , yes , I know now what to do ,  And mean to put it presently in Act .  How full of April-changes is our life ?  Now a fit showre of sad distilling Rain ,  And by and by the Sun breaks forth again .  I cannot but applaud your mind , Alinda ,  But am not much affected with the Subject  On which you purpose now to cast your Favour .  'T is most sweet Musick .  Enough , Alinda .  What say you Lodovico ?  No more .  Not if you give it for her pains , Alinda .  Ha ? no , come , let 's away .  How 's that ?  It bears a face of Horror .  What we meant there , we may do here as well .  The Treason 's there intended : look ye my Lords !  How careless is this woman of her safetie .  Your motion and your own love drew us hither .  What says Lodovico ?  What will you say ?  We easily believe it .  Our Guard .  Their grudge incites my love : take e'm away .  Come my wrong'd Alinda : This place shall serve ,  And this Assembly , to make a Kings word good .  Make your Demands : three things I promise you .  Ask what you will , even to my dearest blood .  Give me a Book .  VVhat I have promis'd to my lawful Queen ,  I will perform ; ask freely .  The Oracle could not pronounce more wisely .  Was this your Charitie ? you have now declar'd it fully :  And I of both have made sufficient Tryal .  Come here Eulalia , take now thy wonted Seat and keep it ever .  Thy povertie and patience have restor'd thee  By the just Providence : while her Excesse and Pride  Casts her before thee , to receive that Doom  She had devis'd 'gainst thy immortal Goodness .  Into perpetual Exile ; hence , away with her .  My Oath was to perform what I had promis'd unto my lawful Queen : that 's my Eulalia .  And let good Lodowick and Horatio be restor'd .  These troubles over : let us , now  Surveigh this part of my Possession .  I never saw before . I could contemplate  This late neglected peece of my Estate ,  To be the happiest : sure it is no less ,  To those that think on earth there 's happiness ,  The Air disperseth pleasure and the Earth  Of fresh delight to every step gives birth .  Here plentie grows , and above it content ,  Ore spreads the Face of all the Continent .  Eulalia , thou art happy , and didst rise ,  Not fall from Court into this Paradise .  Thy can it move my admiration much ,  Thy vertue wrought the change , and made it such .  Yet can I smile in midst of grief to think  How the Court malice hath been wav'd and punished ,  By Rustical simplicitie .  Who smil'd ?  O my Enlalia !  Thy words are sweet :  Yet to my guiltie sense they are not less  Then thunder bolts ; fram'd of the wrongs I shot  Against the Heavenly Region of thy mind .  And 't is but Justice that the repercussion  Do strike me dead .  I must confess I need it ,  Bee 't as thou wilt Eulalia .  'T is quickly granted .  She is not mine ;  Should she recover , as Heavens will be done .  I shall forgive her ,  But she must no more , in her recovery :  Be consort or acquaintance unto me :  But where 's Posteritie now ? O my Boy !  You cannot raise from death .  Forgive ? he won me in preserving Sforza ,  Let me but see my Son , I le honour him .  lives my Gonzago ?  Let not my joy confound me ! where 's Petruccio ?  She is no Queen of mine .  Good Lodovico , may the merited Fame of thy fidelitie ,  While there are Kings on Earth , Shew them to gratifie  All trustie servants : love him Gonzago .  But here 's the man Gonzago , whom thou owest ,  A love of equal value to thy life .  She has anticipated my great purpose ,  For on the reconcilement of this difference ,  I vow'd my after life unto the Monasterie  Of holy Augustinians at Solanto .  'T is not to be gain-said .  So hast we to Nicosia , where ( my Son )  In lieu of former wrongs , I le yield thee up my Crown and Kingdom .  Your vertuous mother ( whom may you for ever  Honour for her pietie ) with these true  Statesmen , will enable you to govern well .  And let your studie , Sir , be ever watchful  To cherish vertue , as to punish vice .  And see that you considerative be  Of Sforza , in the wrongs he felt by me .  His was the greatest losse .  Good Sforza , see her plac'd as she desires ,  In that Religious order . I have now  Plighted my Troth to Heaven , and so has she .  Now with such melting silence as sweet Souls  From Bodies part to Immortalitie ,  May we for better life divided be . 