 O Piso I dearest ( dearest ? ) only Friend ,  That Name of Father t is , that checks my blood ,  And strikes a filiall Reverence through my Soule ;  Layes load upon my loynes , clogging my steps ,  And like an armed Angell warnes me back .  It is not yet day-light : night will conceale  My secret purposes . I will returne .  Deare Piso peace .  O now thou tear'st my very bowells Piso ,  Should I consent ( as I dare not deny  My over-hasty Father ) to this match ,  I should submit my selfe the most perfidious ,  That ever shadow'd Treachery with Love .  No , my Victoria , sooner shall this steele  Remove thy hindrance from a second choyce ,  Then I give word or thought , but to be thine .  Can there no way be found to shun the danger  Of this so hastily intended Marriage ,  But by my flight , and the most certaine losse  Of mine inheritance ?  Stay ; who comes here ?  Pray forbeare .  Come y' are deceav'd .  I pray thee peace .  They say shee 's yet a Virgine .  Fie ! 't was not he .  Would he had her Piso .  Not that I undervalue Flavias worth ,  But not to violate her faith by breach  Of mine , were all this signiory her dowry  ( Here is my hand Francisco , ) I 'le not wed her .  Nicolo well met . I saw you house my Father ,  And waited for you . Come you shall draw neare .  This is a neare friends Lodging Gentlemen ,  Piso , Francisco , Hora . at a Table , Wine , &c.    My fathers speciall man I told you of ;  Pray bid him welcome .  T is well done Nicolo : try the bottome of 't — thrice   Cou'dst thinke me such a Villaine ?  Honest , deserving Nic .  Prithee inquire not further , 't was not he .  On .  How Nicolo ? but first what was th' affront ?  But seekes Revenge How , how , good Nicolo ?  I know it Nicolo . But what can follow ?  It must be then by bribing of the Hangman :  And how canst thou do that with thine own safety ?  Thou mayst be so discoverd and so hated .  But what disguise shall shrowd the Hangman thither , whose own shape is as horrid as the Plague ?  Thou hast inform'd ,  Nay more thou hast inspir'd mee Nicolo !  I shall find way by this , to breake the contract  My Father would inforce ; preserve his credit ,  And save the poore Novella from the same  My father threatens by his own disgrace  Be then but true to me .  Enough : I 'le trust thee . Keepe the gold thy self :  Give me this Habit . Get thy selfe another  In all points like it , and in that returne  Unto my Father , confidently tell him  The Hangman undertakes it , and at five ,  Soone in the Evening , in strangers habit ,  He will accost her .  I 'le see 't perform'd ,  Trust to my word and care , and thy reward .  Most friendly . Farewell Nicolo .  Exit . Nic.    He has given me plot enough , if I but worke it ;  And it produce not Comick sport i' th' end  I must subscribe my Wit is not my Friend ,  I must crave your assistance Gentlemen .  FOund you the Fort , then , so impregnable ?  Sure t is some noble wench then you imagine ,  But my disguise shall put her to the test .  Did she , and all thy fine french qualities ?  Thou art no worshipper of faire women Piso .  How like you this for a beard ?  Why what news Nicolo ?  Then he dos misse me ?  My disguise me .  This is a Devill ! could he know me else  That nere saw him before ; in this disguise ?  I have found the error , and will make good use on 't .  Nothing ; nor nothing will till I arrive  There at the full knowledge of all together .  Not for the price of the Novella Piso .  I 'le try her to the quick . You 'l give me leave  To make prize of her if I can , I crost not you .  On before then .  Exit Hor. Piso .   Now Nicolo ; your disguise againe o th Zaffi .  Who see me , in this straine , seeme to outstrip  The bounds of filiall duty , let ( withall )  Their observation , by my just ends , gather ,  T is not to lose , but to recall a father .  Where is this Lady ? Dos her beauty flie me ?  Who 's this ?  Good sir speake in the proper language of  The Nation we are in , though it come brokenly  From you that this good fellow here may understand us .  Thinke what thine owne must be , thou son of slander .  What dos your shame remove you sir ?  I aske thee for thy Mistris , the Novella .  Thou powerfull man in Magick , I will tell thee .  Th' hast rays'd an apparition , that has damn'd thee  Blacker , then thy black art ; nay hell it selfe .  The heavenly spirit , that inspir'd this forme ,  ( When the unworthy world enjoyd her being ,  VVhich thou hast conjur'd into this lewd habit )  Has , at this instant won the powers above  To sinke thee and thy sorcerers .  I would not dare to try to be the Duke .  Hadst thou but seen , as I have , one like her ,  And noted the divinity in her lookes  ( Although in those adulterate incitements  Shee seemes to wear ) she would have struck thy soule  VVith fervent adoration , not base lust .  I dare to name her to thee , though thou be  Her incens'd Ghost , to worke me to despaire ,  It was Victoria .  'T was there I saw and lov'd her .  I find t is she , and having found her thus  Shee 's lost for ever , and my selfe no lesse ,  That was the cause of this her desperate fortune .  A stranger sir .  You have told me wonders ,  Yet with such faith as I shall ever wish  Lockt in this heavenly Cabinet I take all .  'T is done my Piso .  The best of any living .  My boy Jacomo , turn'd Chambermayd !  Has thy Mistris us'd thee well ?  I see , sweete Heart , you have an honest Family . 