 LAdy , 't is true hee is a bashfull Lover ,  Unskill'd to court a Widow , has not yet ,  The Act methodicall to sweare he loves you ,  Must and will have you , nor the moving boldnesse  To stirre your blood by putting of you to 't ,  Or shewing you how t is , before the Priest  Declares it lawfull . But he has love and sweetnesse ,  Which you will find with full and rich content ;  And look ( look here ) what a long , middle finger he has ,  Which with thin Jawes , and Roman Nose ,  Are never fayling signes of Widowes joyes .  It is  My care to put you in a course of mirth ,  Nay of felicity .  Do not thinke slightly of him , tho' he appeares  Modest and bashfully , if I have any judgement ,  Hee 's a fit match for you . His outward fortune  For his estate , I will make good to him ,  And for his inward vertue never doubt  Hee 'l make that good to you ; However still  He holds his much commended Modesty .  Then I 'le tell you .  These Widowes love to heare of manly acts ,  And choose their husbands by their backs , and faces .  Yes , but I would not have you cunningly  To sift discoveries from me to his wrong .  That 's her humor ;  Then hearke you Widow , to avoid his blushes ,  Suppose I tell hee has got a bastard .  What say you to two or three !  He has no lesse then five old Gentlemens Young Wives with child this Moone , but got all in One weeke .  Yes , in good deed , and lusty .  Suppose they have the husbands consents .  No they are wisealls , and 't is a thing in much request among landed men , when old and wanting issue of their owne , to keepe out riotous Kindred from inheritance , who else would turne the Land out of the Name .  You know the Lady Thrivewell .  You will heare more hereafter , but now to him agen , for whom I am spokesman .  Hee is sent for farre and neere on those occasions , hee is of so sweete a Composure , and such sure taking mettall , that hee employes my care to have him well bestowd before he begins to wast .  The deepest waters are most silent ,  But he can speake , and well to Bellamy .  I have made your love knowne to this Lady .  And have begun your suit ; follow 't your selfe .  Which I 'le take off o' you if you slight my care in seeking your preferment to this Lady , of beauty equall with her faire estate , in both which shee is great , and her atchievement will be the Crowne , and the continuance of all my favours to you , you are lost if you pursue it not , I would thy old Unkle Bellamy saw thy Bashfulnesse .  How meane you Mistris Crostill ?  I am glad I have made you merry , But you will wish if you reject him —  As how I pray ?  Come now he shall have none of you .  Spirit of contradiction !  Say no ( I finde her now ) that is the way to win her .  What servants Mistris Crostill doe you keep .  To let intruders in ?  O Mr. Saveall !  What Gentlemen is that you bring with you ?  For that I thanke him and you , but I could wish you had not brought that Nephew hither now .  My reason is , I have enter'd Bellamy a suitor to the Widow .  And is in deepe discourse with her already ,  I 'le see faire play .  Lady at my request , doe this Gentleman ( who made the first approach ) the favour to be , heard , and answer'd first .  Your Name is Carelesse I take it .  You presse beyond your priviledge , which is only to speake to the Gentlewoman .  You may tell her so .  Let your will guide you .  'T is a mad Widow , which of these two now think you has the Better on 't ?  'T is my opinion too , and heare mee —  And so commend mee to my Lady Thrivewel Come Bellamy away , what 's your discourse ?  So should it be with Rivalls , fare you well Mr. Carelesse .  BEllamy thou art welcome , and for thy Nephew I must ever thanke thee , he is my best companion .  You need not Bellamy : for I know all .  Because thou lov'st to champ upon the bit to please thy old coltish tooth still , thou lov'st the memory of the former sweets which now thou canst not relish .  I never had so many man .  True Bellamy , fall then upon some other subject .  How well hee shifts his subject , wicked old fellow !  Not he .  Discreetly and Virgin-like .  I would for my deserved love to him have put him upon a faire young Widow of a great fortune , but could not make him looke upon her like a suitor .  True Bellamy , speake of somewhat else .  If you do , he is in me provided for .  Come I 'le tell thee , and be comforted . Hee has something of thee in him . Hee will pimpe most conveniently .  And for his modesty which is a rare benefit of nature in him , I dare trust him with a Mistrisse , as I would an Eunuch .  No I am confident — Now your news .  How now ! How is it with my love ? Ha! How comes a trouble on this Face , where my delights are ever wont to Revell ?  Say who has injur'd thee ? Has thy husband taken up the uncivill boldnesse to abuse thee ? or be it any other man , it shall be death , or an undoing to him .  Of what condition is thy wrong ? tell mee ; and who of my Servants thou wouldst have to right thee ?  How canst thou question it ? Has hee not ever been so ?  I doe not know the man , I trust , or love so well .  Troth I thinke I should ; onely thy selfe excepted , but what 's thy wrong I prithee , or wherein should Bellamy right thee ?  Thou amazest me .  Give mee at least some circumstance to make this probable .  Well pray thee on .  On I pray thee .  Is this true ?  How could you be betrayd so ?  I 'le nere trust man can blush and weepe agen .  What messenger brought you the notice Mr. Saleware ?  Mr. Saleware , if you will avoyd a new addition of hornes , come with this bearer over into Montagues close , where you shall finde your Wife with a private Friend , at a private lodging ; Hast thither , and aske for one Bellamy .  What Ridles this ? This is Bellamies owne hand , I know it , why should hee send to prevent himselfe ? or how could shee write his Character ? This Woman is not right .  Within there call Bellamy .  Goe let my Coach be ready presently .  Can you affirme this ?  O Mr. Saveall ! welcome .  I thanke you .  I was preparing thither . Oh Mr. Bellamy , you have not eavesdropt , have you ?  Yes if thou hast .  You may heare more anon , come all along with me .  Madam you sent for mee , though I had former cause to require a conference with you .  I desire first by good Sir Anthony's patience , Madam a word with you in absence of all the rest , except this Gentlewoman .  My modesty forbids .  I understand that Bellamy is in your house .  Y' are very round with mee Mr. Fitzgerrard ,  What is your question ?  Aske you mee ?  Then I forc'd her not .  You cannot sure  Compell mee sir .  That shee is lost I am grieved ; But for your stout demand I 'le answer you at Weapons , time and place convenient .  Sweet let us speake aside .  My deare , deare Amie , and my Bellamy ,  I doe commend your vow of future chastity ,  Vowing the same my selfe , and here before  Your Brother , and these friends to help your marriage  I freely give you two hundred pounds a yeare  During your life .  And Mistris Saleware , for your falsehood  ( Which I forgive , because you are a Woman )  I quit familiarity with you , and advise you  To love your husband , giving him no cause  Of feare or jealousy .  Come Madam , I finde here 's Musick , let 's leade the Brides a Dance to stirre their appetites to Dinner . 