 Ah , ah , ah .  Is Mr Wolsie there ?  Uh , uh , uh , uh .  Agh — fagh .  Is Mr. Wolsie there ?  Where 's Mr. Wolsie .  Then I am even well me thinks — agh — agh —  Agh agh ah — pagh fagh —  Oh oh uh oh —  Mr. Wolsie , Mr. Wolsie .  Oh no , no no no —  Pray do . O but do not , pray do not .  What will you have me dye intestate . Is not my Will made , as I directed ?  Good Sir , It is too late to speak of these things . I only crave and wish your prayers in your absence : This place can yield no pleasure to you I know . Mr. Wolsey , pray your hand againe : I could be even content to live me thinks , if I had but such a man as you to my Huh , uh , uh , uh . —  I will thank you in my Will . I shall not live to thank you otherwise .  Pray let me see it , that I may signe it . Uh Uh —  Uh , uh , uh , umh —  Much enlightned , I thank Heaven and you . Now , pray , read Sir my Will .  Stay . This I intreat of you Mr. Wolsey , that whether I live or dye , this Dole may be given to morrow . It was the Charge of my Mother to see it done ; Saying , it was better to take the Prayers of the Poore with me , then leave them to be sent after .  T is well . Onely add to it — Uh — A Gold Chaine also in my Trunk to this vertuous Gentlewoman .  And another Chaine , that is there of Pearle , to her Daughter . To this learned Doctor twenty pound . And to the Gentlemen which have visited me , for them and their freinds an hundred pound to be spent in a Banckquet .  Do so then . And make your forty shillings five pound .  Now Mr. Wolsie , and your vertuous Neighbour here , I intreat , that when I have signed this Will , that you keep it til my Brother comes to Town . This Doctor shall direct you in all . And that he may be the better able so to do , I desire you all that I may a while be private with him .  Are they all gone ?  Now Mr. Doctor , what think you of the sick Widow ?  Has she done her part hitherto ?  You are right . And I am even the same for a Widow as you for a Doctor . Do not I know you ? Yes good Mr. Crasy . I dare trust you , because you must trust me . Therefore know , that I the rich Widow am no better , then a Lady that must live by what I beare about me . The vulgar translation you know , but let them speak their pleasure , I have no Lands , and since I am borne , must be kept , I may make the best of my owne , and if one member maintaine the whole body , what 's that to any one ?  It was by my direction that he did so . And , by my Instructions , he has had an Eye upon you in all your disguises ever since your pretended Journey out of Towne . Nay startle not , nor muse at my acquaintance with you : I have had you in my Purlews , before you were a Freeman : And will hereafter give you certaine tokens of it . In the mean time , if you comply with me , you can be no loofer by it . I am grown weary of my old course ; and would faine , by wiser , do my selfe good , before Age or Diseases make it too late .  He is of Counsell , and one of us . He is indeed my Brother , and has been one of the true blew Boyes of the Hospitall ; one of the sweet singers to the City Funeralls with a two penny loafe under his arme .  Nay Jeff , be not angry ; thou hast sung to the Organs I know , till fearing their downfall , thou betookst thy selfe into my more certaine service . All freinds , good Jeff .  I mean to say , and know it shortly . Some three dayes hence all may be compleated . Now draw the Curtaines ; and follow your affaires , while I put on my sick Face againe . Uh , uh , uh .  I did consider , and I thinke rightly , what I was ; and that men that lov'd my use , lov'd it but to loath me : Therefore I chang'd my self into this shape of a demure , innocent Countrey Widdow , that had scarce beauty enough to be tempted , but not wit enough to be naught ; and quite forsook the path I trod in , and betook me to this private course of cozenage .  That shall bee made plaine to you hereafter .  Now Brother Geffrey , where left you M Wolsie ?  Sir , here 's a Gentleman has a Letter to you : He tells me it imports the making , or the undoing of his dearest friend .  It shall take effect , doubt not .  He had as liefe part with his blood as his money .  Are you in Bonds , M. Woolsie , for your day of Marriage ?  Then when you are married , you may say you paid the rest for your wife . Pray Sir make even such reckonings before you wed . It will shew nobly in you towards your poor Creditor , and be a speciall argument of your love to me , your wife . Pray discharge it , I shall not think you love me else .  Heark you Sir , if you will take thirty pound in full  payment , and give me in my Bond , here is your mony . 'T is your best course . Alas , I am an unlikely fellow for wedlock . What woman , thinke you , would bestow her self upon me , a stale Batchellor , unhandsome and poor — not worth above six or seven thousand pound ? Do ; take thirty pound .  Pray Sir pay it all , and take in your Bond . You shall be married within these two dayes ; to morrow , if you please : VVhat use will your money yeeld you for a night ? Pray pay it . In truth I 'le pay it else . 'T is but threescore pound .  O thou Varlet , thou unconscionable Unbeliever , ungodly Miscreant ! Hast thou cozen'd my easie Credulity ? And wouldst have undone and married me , like a Cony-catching companion , as thou art ? Didst not thou tell me , thou hadst moderate means of life , friends of fashion , and civile reputation ? And now this vertuous , religious Gentlewoman tells me , thou art an arrant Skipjack .  But I thank this Matrons worship , her pity will not permit my easie Nature to suffer under thy Cosenage : But bestowes her generous Son and Heire here upon me . —  That is acquainted with young Lords ; has had the honour to make a Hunting match .  That hath made Ladies Posies for Cheese trenchers .  And to this Elegant Spirit and choice hope am I , and my Fortunes contracted .  Yes Sir , contracted . Look you , I dare seale it before your face .  Intruth deare heart , and sweet Mother in expectation , to speak equally , there have some words of course past betwixt us , which may seem to impart some Ingagement . Surely I have been too liberall of some speech of advantage . Truly it would not be amiss , ( considering his Expence and Interest ) to fall to some slight Composition . Some hundred Pounds would make the poor Knave do any thing .  For if he chance but to be delay'd till he ask Counsell , then —  Come Sir , you shall not deservedly exclaim of my neglecting you .  For our sometimes Love , I have procured you a hundred Pounds .  Yes sir I come for the same purpose . Alas sir , me thinks I even feele your blowes . Are you not sore sir ?  O mother , cold sobriety and modest melancholy becomes the face of the Matron ; unedifying gawdes are Prophane vanities . Mirth is the fat of fools , onely vertue is the nourishment of purity and unsinning sincerity .  What is it , some Heathenish Play ?  But who should act and personate these ?  I pray you what is Lady Luxury ? A woman regenerative .  And do you think me fit to represent an open Creature ? Saving your modesties , a Whore . Can I play the Strumpet , think yee ?  Modesty defend me ! you think t is nothing to play the Strumpet .  What , the Whore sir ?  Out you base Rascall , you muddy Slave ; thou hast married me , and I will drink a health to thy Cuckoldmaker . —  Thou under-hearted , dull-blooded Pantaloon ; thou whose utmost honour is to be made so good a thing as a Cuckold ; thou sonne of a Copy-holder , and the Pudding-pye womans daughter , dost thou think , dar'st thou but imagine , that I shall ever vouchsafe to love to doe any thing , but laugh at thee ? Hence you Poultroon ; thy voyce sounds not so farre as thy breath stinks — Kicks him .  In earnest ? Why Goodman Fool , you Cocke , you Ninnihammer , you Clotpold Countrey Gentleman , thou dirty greediness . —  Thou dream'st my good husband , that thou  hast married the rich widdow , ha ha ha —  Why dost heare , modestly mumping Mother-in-Law , with thy French-hood , gold-chain , and flaggon-bracelets , advance thy snout . If the foole thy son , the Ideot my husband here , have but as much brains as a Battledore , he may make a faire revenue of me : Has he not a place at Court ? Can he not lodge me there , and prove weak-sighted , thick of hearing , sleepie after dinner , and snort when others entertaine and Court me ? Can he not survey the hangings , read Cupids Conybery , the Park of pleasure , Christian Love-Letters , or some other Pamphlet , or faine some errand into the Town , whilst his browes are turning into gold ?  I do receive it .  Marry on this condition —  I will , and freely do ; only the condition I would have made , is this , That if you intend longer to be Master of your husband , now that you have seen how well it became me , you will henceforward do as I do — Look you , wear breeches .  Yes Sir , breeches ; and as good lining and stuffing in them , I hope , as yours have , though they be of Sattin .  A young one Sir .  See Master your poor servant Jeremy , if he has perform'd his part , desires to be admitted into the Livery of wit , and to wear this chaine as his ensigne of Freedome .  Omnes Jeremy !  Except at spoonmeat , Sir .  Yes , Mistress : Indeed forsooth .  Yes , and no more a Pimp Sir , then I am a Wench . 