 And then if you deserve the Gallows , you shall be sure on 't : a short breathing-vvhile shall be no hinderance to you . So Crier lift up your Voice , and proceed .  That 's an idle fear : vve knew her not ,  VVhich now vve do , vve may again reliver her  Into their hands , for them to kill her yet :  And then there 's no harm done .  Ah Rogues , wee 'l hamper ye .  Wee 'l hamper ye , and halter ye , and do ye hear ? hang ye .  We have laid up  The murderous minded men in dungeon deep ,  Clogg'd them with Ploughchains , Fetters and Horse-locks .  VVe mean this woman , this discarded Queen .  And can you handle the Bobbins well , good Woman ?  Make statute-Lace ? you shall have my Daughter .  You 'l have a help beyond himself , but borrowing .  Bring 'em away to present execution :  They have lien too long upon the Countreys charge .  We have given 'em bread and water a whole fornight .  Impudent Traytors ! how dare you say we cannot ? yet because we graciously are pleas'd to put the Law out of our hands , and make you hang your selves , I le give you Reason : Silence on your lives . First , know , lewd men , y'  are Traytors to the King , In offering to be wiser then his Judgement , Which was but Banishment to the good Eulalia :  Seeking most Trayterously to take the life  Of ( I do not say the Queen , but ) the Kings wife  Of most happy memory .  Good I do say she is , and good again  I dare pronounce her 〈◊〉 that by dayly pain  VVorks for her dayly bread : and for bare hire ,  Teacheth our children so , that we admire :  The Infants who have understanding more  Then we their Parents have , or then  Our Fore-fathers before us had .  But brother Poggio , better 't is they live  A minute two or three , then such a Speech  As I am now upon , be lost .  But to the point . This is the All and some : We meant you a good turn , and for your sake t' have hang'd 'em right or wrong . Now since you will needs stand in your own highway of womens wisdom , which is wilfulness   'T is not unknown to you , that I can speak like a Sage , and am one of the Sages of our Precinct here for the Laytie , though your learning lie another way among us . I am a Sage , and will be a Sage .  Some three or four main Heads : we have now only Pedro , Poggio and my self :  But we have many Powers under us :  These now are Powers that execute our Commands .  There is as much difference between a Sage and a Power ,  As between a Judge and a Hangman .  No , as I said before , their learning lies another way : we allow not our Clergie any Temporal Offices , for reasons known unto our selves .  Brother Andrea , you shall have my voice in your Election .  Well , since in these we are prevented thus ,  Come more , wee 'l hang 'em , or they shall hang us .  Now am I mad till I hear it .  It cannot , fie , it cannot be : how is she found so ? . I do not say shee 's found a witch , but she 's accus'd for one .  Goodness it self !  But where 's our Holy woman ?  Coming this way to her Court-Cottage here , but very slowly , though our two new neighbours make the best way they can for her through the People that press upon her so with thanks and offerings for their new Healths : but she takes not so much for curing of a thousand mortal People , as I have spent in Turpentine and Tarre to keep my Flocklings cleanly in a Spring time . Hark , she comes : this is her Musick where ere she goes .  Yes , yes , he 's dead to you .  I would she had a Councel : she shall have a Councel ,  And we will be the Heads thereof ,  Though I be put to the pains to be President my self .  'T is well consider'd : she shall have a Guard too : and we will be the limbs thereof , though I be put to the trouble of Captain on 't my self .  Yes , and perform 'em too here in our Court of Conscience , for here 's no other profit to hinder the Dutie : let them above do what they list ; we will have as much care of our School-Mistress , as they of their Semiramis : I speak no Treason nor no trifles neither , if you mark it . But she must never know this care of ours , She 'll urge the Statute of Relief against it .  That made me dog him hither .  Nor out of reach neither : a mischief 's quickly done .  How ! you choplogical Rascal , Peasants !  May it do you Service ?  Hell cannot hold him faster then .  Mad Asse , hold your prating till she calls you :  Mean time you are fast : 't was time we were a Councel or a Guard .  Would you have us to become Traytors , to  Supply your wants against the Proclamation ?  If you be well , remain so : your industry  Can keep you here : but for a Journey , that  Requires Horses and Attendants : money must he had ,  Which we have not for such an idle purpose .  News , news upon news !  No nor the King neither , God bless him : they are both alive , with all their Pomp and Train coming to see our School-Mistress .  They take us in their way , for they are passing to Nicosia , where the King means to keep his word with the Queen , in giving her three what d' ye calls ?  Boons ? I Boons : I warrant she 'l ask no Baubles .  A pious care you mean .  Ju-dicious Brother .  More Knaves you mean Brother .  Then the point :  Do not I understand the purpose of our meeting  Here in our pettie Parliament , if I may so call it ?  Is it nor for a Reformation , to pull down  The Queens mercy , and set up our Justice ?  For the prevention of a superabundance of Treason  Dayly practiced against her ?  No , we will make such a Reformation , that Treason shall not dare to peep over the Hedge of her Dominion , but we will take it by the nose and punish it indignely : most indignely will we punish it ?  De did you say ? in in you should say .  Well , I forbear .  I forbear still .  Still orbear .  Then let us sit , and fall to the Business .  Still I forbear Passion becomes not Judges ,  Now bring in the offender , the new and last offender .  I have made speeches that I hope shall make Traytors .  Asham'd to wear their own heads on their shoulders .  I say that 's Treason : and the head thou wearest is not thine own then , if thou beest a good Subject .  And will not our low stool of Justice , privily  Serve for a Traytor ? ha .  By the said womans Sir .  She is our Queen and her Authority is in our hands .  When you are hang'd he has : to the next able  Tree with him , and hang him presently .  Stay : hear a speech first .  Yes Sir , we can spie  Great faults in Noble Coats , with half an eye .  What though we nod ? does Treason therefore think  Justice is adle brain'd ? or though she wink  In us ( as thus ) that she 's a sleep ? or say  She take a nap , d' ye think shee 'l sleep for ay ?  No , she but dreams a while , to circumvent ,  Your vains hopes , with sharper punishment .  For if she be but jogg'd , no Mastife takes  Swifter or surer vengeance when she wakes .  Stay him , my speeches will be lost else .  Come all the Court in all your costly Braveries .  And Treason in your Breech , we 'll hang you for your Knaveries ,  On tree in Hempen twine nay if you come  In open Arms , up shall you all and some .  For though for Tournament your Fames do flie  Run all at Tilt on us , wee 'l draw you dry .  Stay , a short speech for that , and turn him off .  Your shoes at Court are all too fine and thin :  To tread out snuffes and sparks of kindling Sin ,  Which let alone the Rushes may take fire .  Then flame , then burn up higher still , and higher :  You warm you at such fire , 't is we walk through 't  The hobnayl'd Common wealth must tread it out .  Your councels and entreats  We are bound to disobey by Proclamation :  For we must grant you nothing .  Must not we be hang'd now ? 