 For your revenge sir .  T will be sir , such a notable Revenge  That the report of it in after-ages  Will either mortifie concupiscence  In young lascivious Harlots ; or , at least ,  Fright out of 'em their itch of wronging age :  They shall no more dare to put youthfull tricks  On yeares , and gravity .  Sli'd sir , and if you should not be revengd ,  An old man should not step in the Bordello  Without the taunts of Boyes and Gondeliers ,  Crying take heed , old man , you be not serv'd  As the Movella fitted Pantaloni .  So , in short time , the City were well serv'd  When age shall be asham'd to crawle to lechery .  I must acknowledge it .  Yet must I heare it — ?  You have even spoyl'd all now . I had as good a mind  And thought to ha' gone as heartily about  This peece of villany as the Devill , that  Is in my Master could devise , or wish  Till that ore-doing spirit put me out ;  Could he not see 't was well ; and mischievous  Enough in conscience , but himselfe must crosse it ?  Dos he thinke by redeeming of my Father  To slave me with his boasts , and foule upbraydings ?  Had he still rowd i' th' gally , I not knowing ,  The toyle , the smart and griefe had been his own :  Now I inherit what was then his paine ,  Hearing continually the clash of 's care ,  And his fell stripes , out of this Bablers mouth ,  Which more then kills my thanks ; it wreaks my Spleen .  To brag of benefits one hath bestowne  Doth make the best seeme lesse , and most seem none :  So often times the greatest curtesie  Is by the doer made an injury .  May I not aske what end your project aimes at ?  Nay , nay , by faire meanes Gentlemen I pray .  I am apt enough to mischiefe of my selfe .  Looke yee . I sweare with you .  Then you would use me in some treachery Against my old one .  Look you , I 'le sweare againe , I like your oath ,  Your deep Lyatick oath here , wondrous well .  I will comply now and complot with you ,  And was indifferently prepar'd before .  Provided alwayes that it tend not to  Danger of 's Life .  Nay , if it were , 't were no disparagement  To stake my head with yours . But Gentlemen ,  Please yee fall roundly now upon the busines ,  I have now sworne enough .  They are marying of 'em now at their Lawyers ,  By Deed and Covenant , under Hand and Seale .  I left them , and their Bookes there now together ,  And for the Priest to morrow is the day .  No , not at all , the old man's mind 's so carried  Upon the wings of this new marriage fortune —  I cry you mercy sir , you are the Gentleman  I thinke , that should have had her .  In good time may you I 'le do something for you .  Sir thus it is :  My Master sent in my young Masters name ,  ( The more to indeare his service and his care  To the young Lady ) that the Merchantesse ,  The rich Shee pedler of the Merceria  Should visit her to day with all her wares ,  For her to take her choyce to deck her Brideship ;  If you know how to plough now with that Heyfar  You may perhaps convey a message to her .  The doubtfull light deceav'd you sir .  I could unshale a plot .  I would intreat the favour of this Senate  I might unfold it only unto one .  To you young Master then ,  Take heede wee render not ridiculous  Your Father to the wildnesse of their youth :  But to your selfe I will disclose a secret  That may be wrought to your advantage .  T is true , my Master was with the Novella  Drawne by the loose desires of wanton flesh ;  But such a foule affront he did receave  As justly doth provoke his dire revenge ,  Which he hath trusted me to execute .  He bargain'd with her ; and for some large price  Shee yeilded to be his . But in the night  In the condition'd bed was laid a Moore ;  A hideous and detested Blackamore ,  Which he ( demanding light to please his eye ,  As old men use all motives )  Discoverd and inrag'd , forsooke the house ;  Affrighted and asham'd to aske his coyne againe .  Thus sir , you know what common disrepute  Falls upon Man or Woman that is found  Conversing with the common City-hangman ,  That nearest Kinred after such converse ,  Shun their society , as they would doe him  ( The Hangmans selfe ) so odious are they held  Except it be those officers allowd  By the State-publick to negotiate with him .  T is plotted that the Hangman shall go to her ,  And be discover'd with her in such sort ,  As her disgrace shall force her fly the City ,  And I have undertaken to effect it .  For that observe the politique invention  Of my old Master ! the habit of a Zaffi ,  One of th' inferiour Ministers of Justice ,  That walkes betweene the Senate , and their Friend  The Executioner of their commands .  The habit of some stranger in the City ,  Which here is gold to purchace .  Sir , if I faile —  Sir —  I leave all to you sir . And crave my dismission .  Hands off Sir , that 's not yours .  Halfe part then brother Zaffi .  Perhaps to trie sit how it will become me  When I have a minde to be as very a Knave  In office as your selfe , But shall we slip  〈…〉 , and share , before the dog that owes it  Take the bone from us both ?  Zaff Not we sir , we saw none .  May we be bold to aske what marks it has ,  Or what 's within it ?  Fortune has sent my master to relieve me .  I sav'd you sir from being rob'd . Heare me aside  Sir — Nicolo whispers Pant .  Now do you know me I have done the feat .  The Carnifex is fitted for your service ,  In a most gorgeous habit of a Dutchman ,  And about five i' th' evening will be with her .  O sir , your Sonne !  Sir , no where to be found  In private let me tell you , he slipt forth  At foure i' th' Morning ; sir , when you and I  Were you know where . He cast forth doubtfull words  Of a vagary he would fetch at Rome .  Saw you my young Master Gentlemen ?  I sweare he was past my reading ,  Slight , he appeares as like the noted Almaine  Late come to town , if he had but his beard —  Most excellent !  But pray take heed your stay spoyle not the purpose  Of your disguise .  Your Father is in busy quest of you .  Pray Phaebus he misse as much of Madnesse ,  He and his vertuous brother old Guadagni ,  Who misses too his Daughter . Francisco has her .  And shee has got him on by this time : they  Are silly fooles else .  First , sir , know  There 's a strange fellow without desires to speake w 'yee  I guesse hee is some Bravo .  Yes , and inquires here for my Master too ,  And Signior Piso , you are all known it seemes .  By mine Eares t is true .  This is the Gentleman .  What Familiare these Bawds are . They 'l talke yet  Thus to Lords in private .  O , it is ready ; and I know my quue .  With Signior Rastrofico here , the Hangman ,  I come to call him to State-businesse sir . 