 Where 's my sweet princess ?  Where 's my Lady governess ?  I am glad my countenance pleases you . It may :  For I have on it now ( could you discern 'em )  A thousand joyes dancing within these wrincles  More then my feeble failing tongue can utter .  And that 's a grief to me 'mong all my joyes ;  The failing of the tongue , the tongue , the tongue  Is a great grief to any woman . But  To one in years , and well in years , as I am ,  It is a grief indeed , more then the loss  Of any other member .  T is a report of joy and wonder , princess ;  Enough to make not onely you , and you ,  But King and kingdom glad , could I but utter 't .  'T is a report , worth more then all the stories  That I my self have told in child-bed chambers ,  To restore spirit to the pallid flesh .  And I have been a woman as good at it  ( Without vain boast bee 't spoke ) as any she  In Thessaly , that ere durst undertake  The office of a Midwife : And that the queen  Your Mother knew , when I delivered her  Of the sweet babe ( your self . ) She is in blisse  Now in Elisium . But you , Madam Governesse ,  Can yet remember good old Garrula ,  That took into the light your twin-born sons ,  And thereby hangs a tale —  'T is such a story , that could I but utter 't  With volubility of tongue ! — But O  This tongue , that fails me now ; for all the helps  Of Syrups , and sweet sippings . I still go  Provided , as you see , to cherish it .  And yet it falters with me .  'T is that I would ha' told you  Had not my tongue fail'd me i' th' utterance .  Ods pity , what d ee mean .  Madam , look up , and speak up too you were best ,  Do you know who talks to you ? Speak ; and speak well too .  I shall speak that will be worse for you else .  Madam , you know , that I know what I know .  O are you so ?  I — done Madam . Be secure . But yet ,  Though I forbear to speak , I not forget .  I have a son there too , as dear to me  As any Mothers onely born can be ,  Whose name 's not voic'd with theirs . Yet by your favour  Great Madam Governess , he has discharg'd  The office of a Governor ore your sons ,  As well as you have over the Kings daughter .  And they have suck'd more of his Helycon  Then she has of your doctrin : which their breeding  Together with their Travels through his care  Will testifie ( I doubt not ) to my honor ,  That have brought forth a son of such performance .  Why , what things are we mothers ?  You 'l give us leave to take  The comforts due unto us in our age ,  For which we suffer'd sorrow in our youth !  Our children are our children young or old .  You have repli'd ,  As Whilome did a Councellour at Law ,  Who said his adverse Advocate had pleaded  To as much purpose as a hen i' th' forehead .  Wisely spoken , Pupil .  So Whilome answered an Aegyptian Porter  To one demanding what he bore conceal'd ?  T is therefore cover'd that thou shouldst not know .  The cases are alike .  I am not Aenigmatical :  But all for Apothegmes . Besides , I say  ( As Whilome Aristippus of a Riddle )  It is not safe to loose what being bound  Doth trouble us so much .  Let me come to 't .  My Lord , your trumps  Are ever shot at me . Blinde as I am ,  I perceive that . And make much of your Riddle ,  I know both what it can and will come to ,  Better without the sight of it , then all  You can , with all your wise constructions .  And so I leave you .  Madam , you know I know . I must take leave  To take a Nap .  Would you thus offer , by your own disease  To shorten your Mothers dayes ? Or can you pine  And I not grieve ? or cannot grief kill me  Do you think ?  Son , your Philosophy fails you , as your love  Blinds you : For Cupids fire I know may be  Quench'd by old age : But grief 's unquenchable .  My tongue still falters with me ( there 's my grief )  And there are not so many fadoms 'twixt  A womans tongue and heart , but grief may find  The bottom , but for care to keep it up  By sending down an Antidote before it .  Forbear your Whiloms , and your old said saws ,  And since you are in love , and by that love  Grown sick with the concealment .  No more I say  Of your disease , but to the cure , which is  The love of Doris . How ha' you try'd her , son .  Yes , such a gift it might be , and so fastened .  Yet will you leave your Whiloms ? And go seek  My Lady Governess ? say I would speak with her .  Will you say as I say ; and do as y' are bidden ?  It is not her great Lady-ships daughters hand-maid  Shall scorn my son while I know what I know .  If you love Doris , run and tell her so .  And I was eene a sending for you , Madam .  Sending for you ? Yes Madam , so I said ,  And sai 't again . What , what , I know what I know .  You know I do ; and that there is no such  Distinction 'twixt the honours of your birth  And place ; and mine of age and knowledge , but  You might vouchsafe the summons when I send .  You know I know , and have deserv'd some favors ,  I do not bost for what . You know .  O , do you so ? Go forth son Geron , till  I call . All shall go well I le warrant thee .  I do confess my oath , and would not break it ;  Yet , Madam , as you are a woman , you  May know a broken oath is no such burthen  As a great secret is ; besides the tickling  A woman has to in and out with 't . Oh  The tongue itche is intollerable ! And were I  A woman of tongue , as most are of my calling  ( Though Midwives ha' been held the best at secret  Councel keeping ) it had been out I fear .  Yes Madam .  Yet there are kindnesses requir'd on your part .  My memory serves me ; and but that my tongue  Now falters with me — I could recount  All the rewards I have had from time to time ,  Since you translated me from a Country houswife ,  Into the Midwife Royal ; what in Gowns ,  In Gold , in Jewels , Chains and Rings ; and ( which  I prize 'bove all ) my syrrops and my sippings .  What , what ?  I hope I had that before i' the Kings favour ,  As his Queens Midwife . She is in Elisium .  Thereby  Hangs a tale , Madam . Now I come to th' point ;  My son affects your daughters hand-maid Doris ,  Who slights his love . I must now by your power  Obtain her for my Son .  I tell him so : But love has blinded him .  Ho Geron , I say Geron , come and hear .  To her Son .  You must speak plainer , Son .  There 's comfort , Son . And I 'le give thee instructions  To come more close to her .  And thank you for my Son : But still — I know .  He 's overjoy'd .  My son , oh , oh my son is at deaths door .  My liege  And Madam ( it shall out ) you might have sav'd  My sons life in your servants love , whose scorn  Will be his death , except the King divert it ,  And I shall tell him what you know I know —  And open such a secret  Unto his majesty —  Do you slight me in the care of my sons life ?  Do you scorn my secret too , that may be worth  More then your kingdom to you ?  Now you shall never know 't .  What 's their sorrow  To mine ? My sons a dying .  But I pray , say ,  Is my Lord Philocles and Philargus dead ?  Then I say my son shall live .  Hem ! A hem ! a ha !  No I rejoyce  That the advancement that the giglet gap'd for  In one of their fine followers is lost ,  In hope of which she scorn'd my son . But now  He shall scorn her and live .  I le comfort him with the newes .  A wise man then in love is like a sheep  l'th' bryars . As Whilome said   King by your leave .  Tell 't then .  My faltring tongue will fail me . I can hear tho' .  She sayes right . They are both your lawful children  By your own vertuous Queen now in — Elisium .  That swain-ess was my self ,  Though my deserts have glorified me since :  And by my help ( and somewhat of the Gods )  She then made you the Father of that Prince .  O there , look there , Madam my Son , and all  My old Temperian Neighbours . 