 Gabriel Croswill is my name .  Gabriel is my proper name .  Surely Sir . —  You are my father .  I am praying for the conversion of the young man he speaks of .  We had a kinswoman flew out too lately , I take it .  I shall obey you , Sir .  But truly I vvas looking at that Image ; that  painted idolatrous image yonder , as I take it .  Surely sir , I was premeditating a fit thanksgiving to be rendred before meat in . Tavernes , according to the present occasion which the time and place administreth , and that as the spirit shall enable me , shall be delivered before you in due season .  Yes , verily .  You mean , elpoused in holy Matrimony .  hum hum hum Psalm tune . How happy .  It is a weighty question , and requires due premeditation in a religious answer , pray give me leave to take advice —  Zachary is a good name .  Do Elephants take Tobaccho ?  Such cries as these went forth before the desolation of the great City .  O prophane tinkling the cymbals of Satan ; that tickle the care with vanity , to lift up the mind to lewdnesse . Mine eares shall be that of the Adder against the Song of the Serpent .  I will roare out aloud to drown your Incantations . Yea , I will set out a throat even as the beast that belloweth .  It is neverthelesse a Tavern , brother Mihil , and you promised and covenanted with me at the last house of noise and noisomnesse , that you would not lead me to any more Tavernes .  'T was that betrayed and entrapped me : but let us yet forsake it .  One glasse-full more is the most that I can bear . My head is very full , and laboureth with that I have had already .  'T is mighty headie , mighty headie , and truly I cannot but think that the over much abuse of these out-landish liquors , have bred so many errours in the Romish Church .  It is most true , we finde that holy men have gone to Tavernes , and made good use of 'em upon their Peregrinations .  O that kinswoman of ours . She was the dearest losse that e're fell from our house .  I do —  But have you never seen that miscreant that wrong'd her , since he did that same , they say you knew him .  It had been good to have humbled him , though into the knowledge of his Transgression . And of himself for his soules good , either by course of Law , or else in case of necessity , where the Law promiseth no releefe , by your own right hand you might have smote him , smote him with great force , yea , smote him unto the earth , until he had prayed that the evil might be taken from him .  Women ! pray brother le ts avoid the place , let us flie it . What should we do with women in a Tavern ?  I will not glance an eye toward temptation .  Will you abuse me too ? is she not lost ?  What a strange dream has wine wrought in my head .  And will above my life affect you still . But you must leave these gauds and prophane dressings .  Do you swear by your FAITH ?  Yes , in a cup of sincere love .  Modest , and well-spoken verily , she should be a Sister or a Matron .  I will , and to that vertuous Matron , whose care of her , I hope , tends unto good edification . — Truly the wine is good , and I was something thirsty .  I will follow your motherly advice .  And you have travell'd Cousin . I may suppose you brought this well-disposed Gentlewoman from Amsterdam with you . And this unto your welcome , hoping I shall be informed by you how the two zealous brethren thrive there ? that broke in St. Hellens .  Truly Cousin , I think 't was you that I saw to day too , standing upon a Bellconee .  Yes sir , she is my Cousin .  O fearfully prophane !  I dare not speak it but in thy reproof . Thou swearest Gee uh Dee , d ee arm thee , as I take it .  I say thou liest , her name is Dorcas , which was the name of an holy woman .  I may not forbear , I am moved for to smite him ; yea , vvith often stripes to smite him ; my zealous wrath is kindled , and he shall flie before me .  I will pursue him in mine indignation .  And beat him into Potsheards .  Pray give me leave to ask you , do these men take part with the brethren ?  Some State-occasions .  Truly such exercises are prophane exercises , that bear the denomination of good things ordained for mans use , as Barley , Cockles , and Bread are such things to be made sports and play-games ? I pray you let me see these brethren again , to make my atonement with them . And are those Sisters too , that were with them ?  Pray let 'em come again , I shall not be well until I have rendred satisfaction .  I will be as merry as they , let wine be given unto us .  I will begin it , two glasses : it shall be a faithful Salutation to all the Brothers and Sisters of —  Let it go round , go to , you are a wag . I know what you mean by the Blade and the Scabberd .  Nay , who could have thought you had been of the brethren .  Yea , the disguiz'd ones .  I 'le drink , I 'le dance , I 'le kisse , or do any thing , any living thing with any of you that is Brother or Sister . Sweet-heart let me feel thy Coney .  This done in civil fort among our selves , I hope , will prove no scandal to a brother .  I thirst to do it honour .  No , my religious brethren , no more wine .  Enough 's a feast , and little doth suffice .  I thirst to do some honour to our cause . To lead  forth legions to fight a battel 'gainst our . malignant adversaries .  Such an employment now would make me famous , for my sufficiency of Att in Armes .  I feare some Jesuitical fumes have invaded my Brain pan . All me thinks goes whirley , whirley , whirley .  Souldiers must not be curious . A Bench or any thing .  O some small drink .  Surpriz'd by th' enemie , whilest we have plaid the Sluggard in our Tents .  Y' are Mutineers , and have disturb'd my rest . And I 'le do Martial Justice on you all .  Know you not discipline ? or are you growen rebellious in the Camp . I 'le teach you warfare .  I 'le make you know command .  What have we women for our Martial Musick ?  Is the enemy i' th' field ?  You are my Lieutenant , you my Ancient , and you two my Sergeants ; and you must know the Commander  you serve under , to be none of those Letter-carriers that know not so much as the termes of discipline , what a Flanker is , Nor a Raveling is . Nor a Petarre is . Nor a Curtain is . Nor a Bulwark is . Nor a Bastile is . Nor a Counterscarp is . Nor a Casemate is . A Gabion is : Nor any left word of fortification . How can such fresh-water Captains command ?  I knew , men of abilities should at last be put in action .  Valiant men and wise ,  Are only fit for weighty enterprise .  What would an upstart Militaster now , That knew no rudiments of discipline , nor Art of warre , do in a sudden service ? or say , when I know how to have my Ordnance planted here , my Cavalrie mounted here , my Battery-discoverer on such a point , my Trenches cut thus , my Mine carried thus , my Gabions rais'd thus . Here my Parapet , there my Pallisadoe o' th' top of that . The enemie made saltable six hundred paces there . And I draw out my Musketeers to flank 'em in their Trenches here , while my Pikes and Targeteers advance to the breach there . What would Captain , my Lords man , or Sergeant-major , my Ladies Kinsman , sent in by honourable favour , do or say in such an expedition ?  Or how would their braines lie in their breeches , when the able Captain leads up his men in the Head of a Troop bravely , charges with his shot ,  makes a stand with his Pikes , does execution with his Sword , the Cannon playing , the Drum beating , the Shot thumping , the Ensignes waving , the Armes clashing , the Aire rending , Dust and Smoke clouding , Blood raining . And then to bring up such a Division to fight , make good such a Ground , relieve such a Squadron , fetch off such a losse , r'enforce the Ranks that are broken . March on , Come off . Beat the Bessognes that lie hid in the Carriages . O the renowned life of a worthy Commander .  A still march now . So , I have lost a great many of my men . But courage yet , you poor remainder of my scatter'd Troops . Stand . Qni vala . An Ambuscado of the enemy . Alarme . Lieutenant , charge in with your Shot . Now Gentlemen , for the honour of Covent-Garden , make a stand with your Pikes ; in to the short sword ; well fought , take Prisoners . Sound a Retreat now . Faire , faire i' th' coming off . So , 't was bravely perform'd .  What 's this , a vision , sure I do aile something .  What Babel was a building in my braines ?  But now it turnes , and I can recollect  The knowledge of a father , brother , Sister .  And that a thousand vain imaginations ,  Like scatterings of light things upon the earth ,  Rushes , loose leaves , sprigs , straws , and dust  Contracted by a whirlwinde , were blowen up ,  And lodg'd in the rich Seat of Contemplation ,  Usurping there the room of vertuous thoughts .  Honour awake me from this Lethargie .  Was that the man that wrong'd my Cousin Dorcas ?  And sir , for me , now that my Cousin is restored , and the wilde fury of my wine abated .  I do you the obedience of a son , acknowledging my former formal habit was more of stubbornnesse then true devotion . For which I beg your pardon . 