 O good Madam .  Madam , to tell you true .  My love to you  Springs from the joy ,  I take in your sweet boy  I can take no delight  But in his sight ,  Nor any pride  Since my dear Grissel di'd ,  In all , I see on earth or finde in books ,  But that which overcomes me in his lookes .  Gentle Madam .  Madam , I cannot so  Forego my woe .  For while I strive  My solace to revive ,  I do but still restore  My grief , before  That did beti'd  When my dear Grissel did .  And when your Ladiship appears in sight .  ( Pardon ) I cannot chuse but cry out-right .  O Madam , Madam , yes ;  In you the blisse ,  That I do misse ,  I finde inshrined is .  And till , to ease my paine ,  I shall regain  In you the Bride ,  That in my Grissel di'd .  So oft as she in you to me appears  My numbers cannot cease to flow in tears .  I am content .  And now for joy could weep ,  Finding my Grissel in your Ladiship .  They 'r agreed .  Madam , it seems they both are of one minde .  No Madam , no , I know him inwardly  He is my joy , and she shall be conformable ,  Or fare the worse .  A merry harmlesse Girle .  Fear not , good Madam , she will come about .  Fie Blith , be courteous , Blith .  I can but grieve for 't , Madam .  Alas , good Madam , I am down again I know not what to think of living woman now .  I am so drown'd in teares , that I cannot see what to say to 't .  Ah ah ah ah . —  Just so efac my mother would serve me , ha , ha .  Is not this better then whining .  Yes , or perhaps then wiving either .  Ha , ha .  Ha , ha .  Ha , ha , ha , let the dead go , and the quick care for themselves . You buri'd your wife , and cri'd , and I buried mine .  And laugh ; which is the manlier Passion .  You are the merriest Merchant , ha , ha , ha .  I think I shall not marry again in haste , ha , ha .  Ha , ha , ha . —  Ha , ha . —  Ha , ha , ha .  La . Ha , ha , ha . Laugh son Nehemiah .  Ha , ha , ha .  And catch't ifacla , ha , ha , ha .  Ha , ha , ha , ha .  I have not laught so much I know not when ,  H' has made me laugh until I cry agen .  Of Joinctures , Madam , and of Nuptials treat .  Ha , ha , ha , Madam , ha , ha , ha .  My tears with the memory of the dead are all fallen into Lethe ; and nothing but joy left in me , sinc my hopes are confirm'd in your lap . And hang  Poetry : I study profit now . Therefore , look you , Madam , here is a draught of my marriage-instrument to your lap .  And here is another draught for sweet Master Nehemiah , for my Neece Blithes Joincture .  When did she say so ?  Patience , good Madam .  Fear not , good Madam .  She shall not hurt him . Leave her to me , good Madam .  Leave all to me , dear Madam .  Let me alone with her : I 'le win her , and he shall wear her , feare not . As I was saying , Madam , she speaks as well of him behinde his back , as your owne heart can wish . And told me she was content to marry him .  Yes truly , Madam .  Speak gently , Neece , I charge you .  She meanes in well-doing , Madam .  She is yet raw , and has not much been abroad to see the manners of the time . In which my melancholy has been her main hinderance . But Madam , there is now that is worth all our sight and observation ; A new Academy , where they say , the newest and most courtly carriage and behaviour is taught and practised both for young Gentlemen and women . Have you not heard on t ?  But let him see it : at least in our company it will embolden him ; I mean to carry my Neece thither . I have been a Lover of Arts and Exercises ; and know somewhat since my youth . Pray let us spend one houre of this afternoon there .  The Academy .  And are those of your Assistants .  You promise very fairly . For us old ones ,  We know and could have done things in our youth ,  Which still we have a minde to : but we leave  The practice to our young ones : Here 's a paire  Would faine be at it . We 'll pay their admittance .  The best that ever I heard , since I woo'd my Grissel .  Yes , yes , it puts me in minde of some sweet bouts I had with one before I married her .  Put of your hat and say — .  When I was young and bold , I would have said , Lady , you are most auspiciously encountred . And speak it boldly .  Auspiciously encountred man .  Right Madam ; For no Fencer learnes his Science before he receive some hits and knocks too : Oh , I have had many .  Ob , good Blithe , observe .  O my Grissel comes to my minde agen , she was the gratefullest woman .  Truly , truly , 't is most admirable pretty .  Kinde merry Gentlemen , Madam , when I was young I would have done the like . Their coming hither , was as ours was to note th' instructions  That are taught here . Pray sir proceed . On with your exercise , that we may all be edified .  Admirable pretty still .  Yet more whispering .  Pray Madam let us go . Neece come away ,  For I fear Madam , as you wisely doubted ,  This is no companie for us .  O Grissel , Grissel , when would'st thou have said so ?  She 's gone , she 's gone .  She 's flowen out of a window , or chimney-top then .  I 'm sure I wrtch't the door with epen eyes  E're since you entred , as my Lady charg'd me ,  Lest her childe might slip out to play i th' street .  I am abus'd ,  And render me my Neece ,  You have stolne her for your sonne .  A Churchman ! then I feare she 's closely married unto her wo and mine .  Pleas'd or displeas'd .  It seems they are married .  I will no longer whine .  Heaven give you joy , As y' are your owne , y'  are mine . 