 It is not enough you tell me of obedience . Or that you are obedient . But I will be obeyed in my own way . Do you see —  Your troublesome friend Mr. Cockbrayne .  You ha' not ha' you , ha ?  All the Shee-things I have : and would I were well rid of her too .  A Spark ! A dunce I fear by this time like his brother Sheepshead there .  I have not seen him this Twelve-moneth , since I chamber'd him a Student here in Town .  He knows not yet of my coming neither , nor shall not , till I steal upon him ; and if I finde him mopish like his brother , I know what I will doe .  Yes , often by his letters , lesse I could reade more comfort in 'hem . I fear he 's turn'd Precisian , for all his Epistles end with Amen ; and the-matter of 'hem is such as if he could teach me to ask him blessing .  Is it so Sir ? but I 'le new mould him if it be so . — I 'le tell you Mr. Cockbrayne ; never was such a father so crost in his children . They will not obey me in my way . I grant , they do things that other fathers would rejoyce at . But I will be obeyed in my own way , d ee see . Here 's my eldest sonne . Mark how he stands , as if he had learn't a posture at Knights-bridge  spittle as we came along while-eare . He was not only borne without wit , but with an obstinate resolution , never to have any . I mean , such wit as might become a Gentleman .  It could never grow up in him still as it does else . When I would have him take his horse , and follow the dogs , and associate Gentlemen , in hawking , hunting , or such like exercises , he 'l run you a foot five mile another way , to meet the brethren of the separation , at such exercises as I never sent him to ( I am sure ) on worky dayes . And whereas most Gentlemen run into other mens books , in hands that they care not who reades , he has a book of his own Short-writing in his pocket , of such stuffe as is fit for no mans reading indeed but his own .  Sure you are an Asse . Hold your tongue .  And he has nothing but hang'd the head , as you see now , ever since Holiday sports were cried up in the Countrey . And but for that , and to talk with some of the silenc'd Pastors here in town about it , I should not have drawn him up .  What kinde of thing is thy sonne ? ha ! dost thou look like one that could have a sonne fit for me to father , ha ? And yet the best take both , and t' please you at all adventures , ha ?  And is the devil too good a Master for  him , think'st thou , ha ? Wherein can I deserve so ill at thy hands , fellow , whate're thou art , that thou should'st wish me comber'd with a worse burden , when thou hearest me complain of this , ha ? What is this fellow that you dare know him , Friend Cockbrayn ? I will not dwell within three parishes of him .  Dost thou stand like a son now that hears his father abus'd , ha ?  But by the way , where 's your sonne Anthony ? have you not heard of him yet ?  Yes , in keeping her chamber whole weeks together , sullening upon her Samplery breech-work , when I was in hope she would have made me a Grandfather ere now . But she has a humour , forsooth , since we put your son by her , to make me a match-broker , her marriage-Maker ; when I tell you friend , there has been so many untoward matches of Parents making , that I have sworn she shall make her own choice , though it be of one I hate . Make me her match-maker ! Must I obey her , or she me , ha ?  In that very word , under correction , thou disobey'st me . Are you to be under correction at these yeares ? ha ! If I ha' not already taught you manners beyond the help of correction , go , seek a wiser father to mend 'hem .  Leave out correction then .  La there again ! How subtly she seeks dominion over me ! No , huswife , No ; you keep no house of mine . I 'll nestle you no longer under my wing . Are you not fledge ; I 'll have you fly out I , as other mens daughters do ; and keep a house of your own if you can find it .  What tell'st thou me of her ; wise-acres ? Can they not flie out a little , but they must turne arrant vvhores , ha ? Tell me of your kinswoman ? 'T is true , she was my Neece ; she vvent to 't a little afore her time ? some tvvo years since , and so fled from Religion ; and is turn'd Turk , vve fear . And vvhat of that in your precisiancial vvisdom ? I have such children as no man has . But ( as I vvas saying , ) vvould ye top me husvvife , ha ! Look you , novv I chide her , she sayes nothing . Is this obedience , ha ?  That man I vvould desire to knovv ; shevv me that man ; see if I svvinge him not dares slight my daughter .  Oh , you told me of a house you had found for me .  Does he look , or go like one could let a house vvorthy of me .  I cry him heartily mercy , and embrace him . And novv I note you better , you look like Thrift it self .  I cannot think you vvill throvv avvay your houses at a cast . You have a sonne , perhaps , that may , by the commendations you gave of him . Le ts see your house .  Come Sir , vvhat do you gape and shake the head at there ? I 'll lay my life he has spied the little Crosse upon the nevv Church yond , and is at defiance vvith it . Sirrah , I vvill make you honour the first syllable of my name . My name is Will . Croswill , and I vvill have my humour . Let those that talk of me for it , speak their pleasure , I vvill do mine .  Novv you are in the right . You shall indeed . I 'll make your heart ake else , d ee see .  Come now to this house , and then to my son Mihil , the Spark you spoke of . And if I find him cross too , I 'le cross him : Let him look to 't . d ee see .  Some father might take joy of such a sonne novv . This takes not me . No , this is not my vvay .  Away with books . Away with Law . Away with madnesse . I , God blesse thee , and make thee his servant , and defend thee from Law , I say . Take up these books , sarrah , and carry them presently into Pauls Church-yard d ee see , and change them all for Histories , as pleasant as profitable ; Arthur of Britain ,  Primalion of Greece , Amadis of Gaul , and such like de see .  And do you heare , Sirrah .  Get Bells work , and you can , into the bargain .  Adam Bell you Asse ? Valiant Bell that kill'd the Dragon .  Sir Jolthead , do I not . I 'le teach you to chop logick , vvith me .  Sir , Sir , I will change them and you too : Did I leave thee here to learn fashions and manners , that thou mightst carry thy self like a Gentleman , and dost thou wast thy brains in learning a language that I understand not a word of ? ha ! I had been as good have brought thee up among the wild Irish .  Why Sir did not I keep companie think you when I was young ? Ha!   Why this is that I fear'd , the boyes turning  meacock too , after his elder brother , 't was time to look to him .  How now ! what are these ?  Mad ; are they not ? And so will you be shortly , if you follow these courses . Mooting do they call it ? you shall moote nor mute here no longer . Therefore on with your cloak and sword , follow me to the Tavern and leave me such long-tail'd company as these are , for I do not like them .  I think thou hast ne're a sword , hast thou , ha ?  Where is it , Sir , let me se 't Sir .  Why there 's a Lawyers trick right , make his weapon companion with his Pisse-pot . Fie , fie , here 's a tool indeed . There 's money , Sir , buy you a good one , one with the Mathematical hilt as they terme it .  Go to , you are a peevish Jack , do not provoke me : do not you owe me obedience ? ha !  'T is good you do . Well , take that money ; and put your selfe into cloathes befitting your rank , Do so . And let me see you , squirting about without a weapon , like an Attorneys Clerk in Tearm-time , and I 'l weapon you , What , shall I have a Noddie of you . This frets him to the liver . Go to , never hang the head for the matter . For I tell thee I will have it so , and herein be knowen what I am .  What have you told it after me , you had best weigh it too .  Bodie o' me , what a perverse knave is this , to crosse me thus ! Is there too much , say you ? ha .  Let me see 't . Go thy wayes , take thy musty books , and rhy rustie whittle here again . And take your foolish plodding dunci-coxcomely course , till I look after you again . Come away sirrah .  Down boy , and bid the Cook hasten dinner .  I will not drink in the mean time , sir , Get you gone .  Hold up your head , Sirrah , and leave your precise folly . I 'll leave you to the wilde world else , d ee see . Is the name of a Tavern so odious to you ? Ha . Your brother has vext me sufficiently alreadie , and perhaps he 'll refuse to come too ! If he dares let him . Welcome Mr. Rooksbil , welcom Landlord , and your faire daughter , welcome pretty one . Trust  me a pretty one indeed , pray be acquainted with my daughter there . In your Maiden-company , I hope she will not think the Tavern such a bugs neast as she did . I had much ado to draw my rebellious children to the Tavern after me .  All in good time , she may encrease in vertue . But if it be a fault , ( as i' my conscience in his thought it is a great transgression ) my unsetlednesse , and unprovidednesse else , where or how to entertain a friend , or feed my selfe , may well excuse us all , d ee see .  It is a vice , as much a vice or more , as is your sonnes , your cast-aways as you call him , that sucks no other aire , then that of Tavernes , Tap-houses , Brothels , and such like . I would their extream qualities could meet each other at half-way , and so mingle their superfluities of humour unto a mean betwixt 'hem . It might render them both allowable subjects , where now the one 's a firedrake in the aire , and t'other a mandrake in the earth , both mischievous , see how he stands like a mole-catcher . What dirty dogged humour vvas I in vvhen I got him troe ?  What a mechanick slave is this , to thank a sonne of mine , hovve're I under-rate him , a fit mate to mingle blood vvith his moore-ditch breed . True , his estate is great , I understand it , but of all foule I love not Moor-hens . Such another motion  vvould stir me to roare him dovvn the tavernstairs .  Heaven grant me patience .  I was never so put to 't . I wish we had a stickler . I muse that Master Cockbrayne stayes thus .  Uds precious I minde nothing , I am so crost in mind that I can minde nothing , nor I will minde nothing , d ee see . Why comes not Mr. Cockbrayne , Ha!   Fart for his undertaking ; all the world is bent to crosse me . What is my young Master come ? ha !  And why not come before you , sir . Does he not think that I have waited long enough , sir ? sure I 'll crosse some body under that knaves pate of yours , d' y see .  So now my spleen is a little palliated , let me speak with you Mr. Rooksbill . Get you down , Sirrah ; and bring me word , dinner is not ready , and I 'll give you as much more , d' ye see .  You Sir , come hither , what is hammering in your head now ?  Is 't not some Synodical question to put unto the brethren , concerning Whitsonales and Maygames ? ha !  I am glad I know your minde ; for that trick , my zealous sonne , you shall come in at half-dinner , like a Chafing-dish of coales , when the sawce is cold , to make use of the heat of your spirit ; d ye see . I love not meat twice drest .  But what 's that to your daughter ? ha !  Well , hold your peace , and was that your spiritual meditation ?  Come Sir , at this Gentlemans request I will now put a question to you concerning the flesh . What , think you of yond Virgin there his daughter ? can you affect her so well as to wish her to be your wedded wife ?  Yes , I mean so .  But do thou say , yes verily to that , and as I hope to have peace in my grave . I 'll break the Kings peace on thy pate presently .  He sayes he will talk with a cunning man about her .  Hoyday , here 's a din .  Now me thinks , the muskadine for tht Maidenhead , and the Jordan for the Bore were better .  Knock aboue , and a pot thrown . Why boyes , drawer , rogues , take up , ( below ) By and by , by and by , ( above ) Wine , Tobaccho .  What variety of noises is here ? and all excellent ill sounds . ( Above ) Call up the Fidlers , Sirrah .  Hold your peace , Sirrah , or I 'le make you bellow for something .  Dare you come , sir , you should have stayed now till you had been sent for .  Are you at your Verilies too ? ha !  You are in the right Sir , I 'le have it so indeed , I 'le know why I shall not else . What do you know no bodie here ?  What , with a By and by , that strikes into my head as sharp as a Stellatto .  Now thou art an honest fellow , there 's a couple of shillings for thee . Have us out of thy windmil here , I prithee , and thy By and by 's .  I 'm glad it pleases you .  I am glad I have it for you Sir , I pray , make bold with it .  What is 't ? you cannot utter it so easily as I shall grant it , out with it man .  What a Dogbolt is this to think that I should get a childe for him .  I will not stay a minute in thy house , though I lie in the street for 't .  Huswife , I 'le sort you with fitter companions , Come , follow me quickly .  Before you came in it did you not ? ha !  Marry fough , Gooddie Foyst .  Are you so tender bodied ?  Why you will not thrust me out of your house , will you ? ha !  Indeed there is not , nor will I out for all your haste neither . I 'le have look to my bargain .  But no more of your idle motions , if you love your ease in your house , your Inn here .  Here 's a letter , sir , from Mr. Cockbrayne .  Is the earer paid , or give him that an 't please you .  I sent you to seek my sons , good sir , have you found 'em ? ha !  Sirrah , go finde em me where e're they be , any where , or no where , finde 'em , and finde 'em  quickly ; I 'le finde 'em in your Cockscombe else , d' ye see ! and bring my sons Sanctity home before it be dark , lest he take up his lodging in a Church-porch ; and charge Mr. Mihil that he come not to me till I send for him . Here 's danger i' th' house . There was a match-motion indeed .  Pray Sir , be quiet in your house , lest I send you out of it to seek another . Let me see my chamber .  I 'm glad it likes you . Heigh , excellent good again . Heigh , Heigh , what an happinesse may fathers boast , that can bring their children up to this .  ( Dance ended )  I cry ye mercy , Gentlemen all . Ha! I am sory I interrupted your serious private occasions .  Thy father ? hold thy peace ; dar'st thou use thy father thus ? to spend thy time thus ! ha ! Is this place fit for the son of a Gentleman of quality ? ha ! why doest not answer me , does this company sort with thy reputation ? ha !  Hold thy peace , I say , or are these exercises allowable for a Gentleman , that ever said or heard Grace at his fathers Table ? answer me that .  Hold thy peace when I bid thee .  In good time , sir , you are the distracted Gentlemen , I take it , that ask't him if he would moot to night ? Is this your mooting ? do you put cases to your VVenches , or they to you ?  Which are the better Lawyers ? ha !  I thank you for him , yes truly , heartily ; and for your good opinion of him , heartily . Pray keep him amongst you while ye have him , for I 'le ha' no more to say to him , I . Is your Invectives against drinking , wenching , and the abomination of the times come to this ? is this your spending of time more pretious then money ? is it you that knows not what to do with money but to buy books ; and were drawn with such unwillingnesse to a Tavern ? ha ! you shall graze upon Littletons Commons , or eat nothing but books , an 't please you , for any exhibition thou ever get'st from me — And in that faith thou hast lost a father . Come sir , you have brought me to a goodly sight here ; would any Villain but thy selfe have shewed his Master light to see so much woe ! Thy Coxscombe shall yet pay for 't .  This was your trim sight , was it ?  But well remembred . Pray where 's your brother ? my son I would say ; for I know no brother or father thou hast . Where is Gabriel ?  Did you not tell me , Sirrah , he was here ?  He was here , sir , but he is gone , sir .  So , so , he 's lost . He must be cried , or we shall never finde him .  Was that spoke like a son of mine ? must others pay your reckoning , and I in place ; take that , and do not make me mad . And why should you home with me ? I pray , sir .  Pray take no care for me , sir , and let the way be as it is . Do not think me worse at it in the dark then your self , I beseech you . But you talk't of the Reckoning , pray let not the want of money for that hinder the search of your brother . There 's towards your paines for that ; and so for a farewel to you and your friends here , till I hear thou keepest better company , let me hear no more of thee .  WHat has this Coxscombe Cockbrayne writ me here ? That he desires his absence be excus'd . What have I to do with him ? when I send for him , let him come to me . That he is upon a point of discovery in a most excellent project for the weeding of this Garden ? what Garden ? what project ? A project he says here for the good of the Republike , Repudding . This fellow has in stead of braines , a Cob-web in his Noddle , with little strawes , feathers , and wings of dead Butterflies hanging in it , that having motion by his aery fancie , there dance and keep a Racket ; 't is to teach women silence , or some such foolish impossibility . He is ambitious to be call'd into authority by notice taken of some special service he is able to do the tate aforehand . But what great service he is able to do it , or which way to undertake it , falls not in the reach of my imagination . But good Mr. Croswill , by your favour now , what reason have you to slight or wrangle at this man ? this honest Cockbrayne ? that has alwayes been a constant friend to you , and officious in many good wayes , and is a Gentleman , not only of good descent and estate , but of a good disposition . And you two , Mr. Crossewill , by your leave , have alwayes agreed like  neighbours children . I , the divel was in 't , and now he vexes me again ; we agreed in one point so well , that we have undone a couple of our children by it , and hindred the getting of I know not how many more . His son and my daughter should have married . And on a sndden he and I both consented to a dislike of the match and broke it , and have both repented it an hundred times since . We agree very wel in that point ; and now is his son irrecoverably lost , and my daughter resolutely bent to be an Ape-leader in Limbo . But what 's all this to the affliction I suffer in my sons now ? that one of them from a riotous boy . should grow into a Puritanical Woodcock ; and the tother from a civil well-qualified fellow , turn'd absolute Ruffian . There , there , I there 's the devil in 't . I could beat my selfe for getting such children .  See , see , my Master for want of other company fallen out with himself , and it please you , sir .  It does not please me , nor thou pleasest me , nor any thing pleases me . The world 's bent to crosse me , and thou shalt feel it .  Is it not so , sir , was not that dunce Gabriel , a most notorious wilde thing  Before he steer'd a Religious course ? but then he run so full a saile , that he pass'd and was beyond the line of Religion before he was aware ; and as he passed it under the torrid Zone of Zeale , the Calenture took him o' the pate , that he is mad with it , and as far beyond Religion now as it is to it .  And then was not Mihil so civil , that he made me even sick to see him . And now is he flowen out as far into rior t'other way .  What 's this you tell me ? ha !  He had been better have cut his head off .  Where is he !  Do you think it fit I should go down to him , or he come up to me , fir , ha !  I charg'd he should not come at this house too , for feare he might be catch'd with this mechanick fellows daughter , though her portion be around one . And let him take heed he look not at her .  Blesse me ! what changeling is this ? he 's in his Brothers cut .  Would you speak with any here , sir , do you know me . I know not you , I assure you .  A delicate speech , pray take it for fashion-sake .  But if I know how to look towards thee .  God blesse thee , I say , and so much many honest men bestow daily on sons that are none of their own , if thou beest mine , how camest thou thus like a fellow that had narrowly scap't the Pillorie , and brag'd in the publication of his eares ? not an hair left to hide them .  What will this come to ?  Why so , what needs two words then ? do you think I can deny you ?  Widow , you are welcome . Why call you not your Priest ? or tarry sir , let me question you but a little , Do you think seriously you love this widow ?  'T is very well , what children have you widow ?  Very well still .  Thou art a covetous and a preposterous Knave . Wouldest thou bury up thy youth in barren ground ? doest seek after wealth , and not after issue ? doest love to feed on other mens leavings ? or travel only in a beaten path ? ha !  You have said enough , sir , and delight to crosse me ; but I 'le crosse you for once , and lay a crosse upon you , shall perhaps carry you to your grave . Go , fetch your Priest .  Widow , you are resolv'd to have him too .  You shall not have him .  I am resolv'd I 'le do 't . And 't will be the best crosse trick that e're I did in my life . Pray let me speak in some more private with you .  Come sir , I have broken off the match with your widow ; and she 's content to leave you as she found you . And now take me this pretty , simpring , plump-lip't , ruddie-cheek't , white-neck't , long-finger'd Virgin in hand , or I will swindge you , Sirrah , look to 't . If you cannot live civilly with a young wife , you cannot but be mad with an old , I think . Besides , she 's a friends daughter of mine , and prepar'd by her discreet father here to love you . Come , and kisse her , quickly , Sirrah .  How 's that ?  He will have me think him a bastard , do I what I can . Canst thou see a Maid twice , and not kisse her ?  But you shall kisse her above and below , sir , and in every room o' th' house , sir , before you part . Stand faire pretty one .  Turne your self , Sirrah , or I 'le turne you . Go to , bend your body a little and be hang'd . So , now come your way , and say after your little Sir John here , I Mihil take thee , Lucie , &c.  As learning shall enable him to proceed without book .  I think I shall have my will at last upon one of my rebellious off-spring .  That very word brother out of his mouth , has turn'd my stomack . I must pull all in pieces again . And yet let me see these young bloods when they  are set on 't ; if they do not marry , they will do worse . Let em e'ne go on now .  There he is again , he calls my Grand-children that shall be , his Grand-children . Am I a Gentleman , and can hear this ? if it be not too late , I 'le spoile the getting of your Grand-children .  What , are you married ?  What remedy ?  But you , sir , Mr. Bridegroom .  Do so , and pay him well , it is , perhaps , for the dearest fault that e're thou didst .  Are you at leisure now , sir , to tell me of your brother .  To your grief , sir , he is not dead then ? Younger brothers seldome grieve for their Elders death .  And hast thou been here all this while fooling or wiving ( all 's a matter ) & left thy brother in danger ? ha !  Go , shew the way . I 'le go in person , I . My son 's my son .  Yes , 'cause you have a wife , you shall controul me . Will you go on , sir .  Whither hast thou brought me ? does thy brother lie speechlesse in this house ? ha ! what in the name of tumult can these be ?  Is 't possible it is thou ? art thou run mad as far as hell the tother way now .  I rather thought I should have found you , sir , disputing with the Pastors , and the Elders ; yet to say truth , this is the better madnesse . What can this mean ? how came he thus translated ? what Charmes , or what Inchantments are upon him ?  What can those women that appear like furies be in this action ?  I know not what to say to any thing ; there  is some Spell upon me too . My anger has forsook me . What are those men that bear a countenance . As if they stood indifferently affected to Bedlam and Bride-well .  Give it him , Brother Rooksbill , I dare say 't will make him a good man .  What ? my Neece Dorcas made an honest woman ?  Your widow sir , I think .  My Neece , sir , his sons wife . And I 'le baile her .  Why , Mr. Cockbrayne ? how his braines crow now ?  I hope they 'l prove my sons , and be indifferent men in time , sir , by that time their haire may grow , or be reduc't to an indifferent length .  Now he looks as like a Rogue as e're he did again .  There 's more deceit under these half Foot-balls , then in whole Pudding-bags . Well boyes , be you indifferent sons , neither too hot nor too cold . I have found a fault in myself , I confesse . I will reform it , and be an indifferent father .  How ? how ? your son that should have had my daughter ? Come hither Kate , now if thou lov'st him , take him . Are you content , friend Cockbrayne .  Why run you not together ?  Is 't come to that ? and if I do not swindge him — . Are you too good , sir , for my daughter ?  Huswife , do you like him ?  Get you together , or I 'le swaddle you both into one , you perverse fooles .  Heyday ! who am I trow ? how durst you do it vvithout my consent ?  I cannot abide this vvrangling . Give you joy .  You have done the Common-wealth a special piece of service the vvhile vvith your State-braines . But let us make a night of this , I pray .  There 's an honest fellovv novv , and looks like one that vvould be beaten every day for ready money . Go novv , vvhile ye are vvell , and be seen no more in this Precinct .  'T vvas built for no such vermine . Hence avvay .  And may the place be purg'd so every day .  'T is no unvvorthy member may be found ,  To pester or to vilifie this ground .  That as it vvas intended , it may be  A Scoene for Vertue and Nobilitie . 