 Most sinfully thou lyest ; and all that give  Breath to that foul opinion .  Give me that thought from you ; nay , from you all ,  Or I will rip you for 't .  I le have that thought out first .  What 's that to ill in her ?  I stand upon that point . Mans evil merit 's  No warrant for a womans dishonesty .  I say had shee a man forty degrees  Beneath his undeservings , t were more possible  For him to deceive her with a good Life ,  Then shee him with a wicked .  Do and undoe .  No I 'm confident .  I told thee there was none .  But wher 's the Gentleman ?  Not I , t is the first time that ere I saw him ;  To my remembrance ; yet he fought for me .  Beshrew thy idler care that made me lose him ,  What should he be that so could fight for me ,  Yet care not for my company ? beshrew thy heart .  Why should he use me thus ? I shall be sick to think on 't .  I 'm made beholding now to I know not whom ;  And I 'm the worst to sue or seek to a man —  What 's that ?  In troth I am , and friends with them I fought with ;  He us'd me peevishly to leave me so ,  Ere I could thank him .  But did you mark th' humanity of my Gentlemen ,  Cause shee 's dispos'd by her self willed uncle  On that unworthy Quick sands ( Devil take him )  They thought t would sound like musick in my ears  To hear her disgrace sung ; when her fair honour  Is all I have to love , now shee 's took from me :  And that they 'd go about to rob me of .  Heaven grant me patience . O my slaughter'd father !  I am thy son , and know by thy infirmity .  Push , we see  Thieves daily hang'd for Robberies ; yet some  Go on still in the practice ! What a fine  Is set upon the head of foul Adultery ,  And yet our neighbours Wives can hardly scape us !  There 's Lawes against extortion , and sad penalties  Set upon Bribes ,  Yet great mens hands ha' their fore-fathers itch !  Prisons are fill'd with Banckrupts ; yet we see  How crafty Merchants often wrong their credits ,  And Londoners flie to live at Amsterdam !  Nothing can banish Nature : That 's the Moral .  No , certainly he 's slain .  It is uncertain . All we heard of 'em  Was , they rode forth ( 't is now a whole year past )  Singly to end their quarrel : But to what  Part of the kingdom , or the world they took ,  We can by no inquiry find or hear  Of either of them . Sure they crost the Seas ,  And both are slain .  I speak as my heart finds . She 's gone for ever too ;  Her hearts desire be with her .  Then my poor Sisters sickness ; that torments me ,  Never in health since our dear Father left us .  How shall I do to see these men again ?  I shall not be at rest till I be friends with 'em .  I 'le seek 'em out . Nathaniel alwayes lov'd me .  How is it with you Sister ?  You speak as if you lov'd the man I hate ,  And that you fear I have kil'd him .  Then 't was your frivolous fear that wrought in her .  Good Sister be at peace : for , by my love to you ,  ( An oath I will not violate ) I neither saw  Nor sought him , I . But other thoughts perplex me .  Whose wedding , Sister ?  What do you mean ?  You wrong me shamefully , to think that I  Can think of other then her memorie .  Though she be lost and dead to me , can you  Be so unnatural as to desire  The separation of a thought of mine  From her dear memorie ; which is all the comfort  My heart is married to , or I can live by .  What piece of impudence have you receiv'd  Into my house ?  Good Maid forgive me ; and my gentle Sister ,  I pray thee bear with my destractions .  And now I 'le tell you Sister ( do not chide me )  I have a new affliction .  I am ingag'd unto a Gentleman ,  ( A noble valiant Gentleman ) for my life ,  By hazarding his own , in my behalf .  You wrong me beyond suffrance ,  And my dear fathers blood within your self ,  In seeming careful of that mans safety —  Again , I ask you pardon . But I had  A quarrel yesterday , that drew strong odds  Upon my single person ; Three to one :  When , at the instant , that brave Gentleman  With his sword , sides me , puts 'em all to flight —  How quick you are !  My affliction is ,  That I not know the man , to whom I am  So much ingag'd , to give him thanks at least .  O Sir y' are welcome , though we parted somewhat  Abruptly yesterday .  Pray thee Nat . tell me , for I hope thou know'st him ;  What Gentleman was that came in betwixt us ?  What is 't pray thee ?  Your news good Nat ? what is it ready made ,  Or are you now but coining it ?  What mischief did you there ?  Out of my house , that I may kill thee ; Go :  For here it were inhospitable . Hence ,  Thou busie vaillain , that with sugard malice  Hast poyson'd all my hopes ; ruin'd my comforts  In that sweet soul for ever . Go , I say ,  That I may with the safety of my man-hood ,  Right me upon that mischievous head of thine .  Yes : that he may die  Satisfied , that I did but Justice on him ,  In killing him . That villain , old in mischief ,  ( Hell take him ) that has married her , conceives  It was my plot ( I know he does ) and , for  A sure revenge , will either work her death  By poyson , or some other cruelty ,  Or keep her lock'd up in such misery ,  That I shall never see her more .  Not in a word , let me intreat you , go .  Neither shall she hear you .  What was it that he said ?  He could not lay so .  And now I find my self instructed by him ;  And friends with him again . Now , Arnold , any tidings .  Pseugh , I le not think of him . To dinner sister .  I am sorry sister , trust me , truly sorry ,  And knew I which way to recover her  With my best care I would . Yet , give me leave ,  I saw her overbold ; and overheard her  Say , she foresaw that Arthur my sole enemy  Should be your husband . I le marry you to death first .  Your pardon again your sister ,  And for your satisfaction I will strive  To oversway my passion . How now Arnold ,  Me thinks I read good newes upon thy face .  She is not dead ,  And do you laugh too ?  I am too merciful , I kill thee not .  Out of my doors , thou villain , reprobate .  Never while I have power to lift a hand  Against thee , mischievous Villain .  Forbear , sister .  This is a cause turns patience into fury .  And my house too .  Or villain , look to die , oft as I see thee .  Let not the name  Or empty sound of comfort mix with th' air  That must invade these ears : They are not capable ,  Or , if they be , they dare not , for themselves ,  Give the conveyance of a sillable  Into my heart , that speak not grief or sorrow .  That 's most unsutable ; y' are no company  For me to grieve with if you grieve for me ;  Take the same cause with me ; you are no friend  Or sister else of mine . It is enough  To set the world a weeping !  Now you are right . Her husband 's of that part ;  He cannot weep by nature : But I le find  A way by art in Chymistry to melt him .  At least extract some drops . But do you weep  Indeed for Millicent ? What , all these tears ?  She is my love indeed ; and was my wife .  But for the empty name of marriage onely ,  But now she 's yours for ever . You enjoy her .  In her fair blessed memory ; in her goodness ,  And all that has prepar'd her way for glory .  Let me embrace thee sister . How I reverence  Any fair honour that is done to her ,  Now thou shalt weep no more : Thou hast given me comfort  In shewing me how she 's mine . And tears indeed  Are all too weak a sacrifice for her  But such as the heart weeps .  Call you this mournful . T is a wanton air .  Go y' are a naughty child indeed , I le whip you  If you give voice unto such notes ,  They are sad indeed . How now my boy , dost weep ?  I am not angry now .  Dost thou not know him .  O , good boy , that canst weep for a strangers misery !  The sweetness of thy dear compassion  Even melts me too . What does he say he is .  And dost thou let him stay without so long ?  Merciless Villain ! run and fetch him quickly .  Sister , can I be too zealous  In such a cause as this ? For heark you , sister ,  A lovely one he is , and wondrous like her ,  O let me run and clasp him ; hang about him ,  And yoak him to me with a thousand kisses !  I shall be troublesome and heavy to thee ,  With the pleas'd waight of my incessant love .  Youth of a happy kindred , which foreruns  A happy fortune ever . Pray thee , sister ,  Is he not very like her ?  I' st not her face ? you do not mind me sister :  Why sister , you were wont to take delight  In any comfort that belong'd to me ;  And help to carry my joyes sweetly : now  You keep no constant course with me .  What , and allied to her ? impossible !  Where ere thou liv'st her name 's a fortune to thee .  Her memory amongst good men sets thee up ;  It is a word that commands all in this house .  Live my companion ; my especial sweet one ,  My brother and my bedfellow thou shalt be .  She took from earth , how kind is heaven , how good  To send me yet , a joy so near in blood !  Good noble youth , if there be any more  Distres'd of you , that claims aliance with her  Though a far off ; deal freely ; let me know it ,  Give me their sad names ; I le seek 'em out ,  And like a good great man , in memory humble  Nere cease until I plant 'em all in fortunes ,  And see 'em grow about me .  Thou shalt have all my care then , all my love .  Yet note him sister .  Come , you shall kiss him for me , and bid him welcome .  That 's well said sister , but he will and shall  Be bolder with us , ere we part .  Come gentle blessing ,  Let not a misery be thought on here ,  ( If ever any were so rude to touch thee )  Between us we 'll divide the comfort of thee .  What , still alone ? we have been seeking thee .  Dost thou not know his name ?  You treacherous boy , do you bring you know not whom ?  O 't is the Gentleman I was so bound to , Sister :  The welcom'st man alive ; Thanks my good boy .  What 's she he brings in veil'd , and this way leads ?  This man  Would breed , at every time it 's seen , a wonder !  Sir , leave me not thus lost : let me once know you ,  And what this mystery means ? This bears a shape  I may not entertain : I have set my vow  Against all woman kinde , since Heaven was married  To my first love ; and must not willingly  Discover a temptation with mine own hand .  Blesse me , it is —  Warm , so Love cherish me and comfortable .  Might a man credit his own sences now  This were my Millicent . How think you , sister ?  And in that  So blest a treasure , that the wealth and strength  Of all the world shall never purchace from me .  Heaven may be pleas'd again to take thee , but  I le hold so fast , that wee 'll go hand in hand ;  Besides , I hope his mercy will not part us .  But where 's the man now more desir'd then ever  That brought you hither ?  This is a cruel goodness : To put thankfulness  Out of all action . Sirah , how went he ?  Vanish'd ! good Lucy help to hold her fast  She may not vanish too . Spirits are subtle .  I le be as calm in my extreamest deeps  As is the couch where a sweet conscience sleeps .  Sure , sure w' are all then in Elisium  Where all are friends and fill'd with equal joy .  Earth can have no felicity like this .  If this be any thing .  I see , I feel , I hear and know ye all :  But who knowes what he knowes , sees , feels , or hears ?  T is not an age for man to know himself in .  If I know any thing , you are my father —  And I beseech your blessing . 