 Heartily Godbuy , good Mr. Crasy .  Strange mad fellows these same , Mr. Crasie , me thinks to deale withall .  My good friend Mr. Crasie , I have no tricks and Jerks to come over you , as the witty Gentleman had ere while : But I know a plaine bargaine is a plaine bargaine : and wit is never good till it be bought . If twentie pound will pleasure you , upon good security I will procure it you . A hundred if you please , do you mark Mr. Crasie ? On good security . Otherwise you must pardon me , Mr. Crasie . I am a poore Tradesman Mr. Crasie , keep both a Linnen and a VVollen Drapers shop , Mr. Crasie , according to my name , Mr. Crasie , and would be loth to lend my money , Mr. Crasie , to be laught at among my Neighbours , Mr. Crasie , as you are Mr. Crasie . And so fare you wel , Mr. Crasie .  Truly Mr. Toby Sneakup , me thinks I find an alteration in my selfe already .  Me thinks I love the name of a Gentleman a great deale better then I did .  Uhm — I is not gone so farre upon me yet .  But Mr. Toby , a man may be a Countrey Gentleman , and keep his money , may he not ?  I see no Courtiers , but are more apt to borrow , then to lend .  I can the sooner learne . Your Courtier Sir , I pray .  O that Article spoyles all .  I thank you Sir , for your Courtly and Gentlemanlike instructions , and wish you grace to follow them : I have seen too fearfull an example lately in my neighbour Crasy , whose steps I list not trace ; nor lend my Money to be laught at among my Neighbours . Fare you well Sir . —  How should he come to the knowledge of her ? Some of these Gallants will snatch her up , if I prevent not speedily .  Truly not well Sir . Whether it be wearinesse of her journey , change of ayre , or dyet , or what I know not ; something has distemperd her .  Me ? Alasse , I look like no such Gentleman .  Do you speak this in earnest Sir , or as you are a Courtier :  Then in earnest , and as I am an honest man , I do not beleeve you . Mr. Toby Sneakup has told me what Gentlemen and Courtiers are , too lately .  My Sweetheart !  Is she sicker then she was .  Has shee given me any thing ?  Fare ye well Gentlemen .  Good Sir want nothing , that your skill shall approve necessary in this time of need . Good Wives and kinde Neighbours , I thanke you for your cares .  Here Lady . How do you ?  Shee 's very farr gone I feare , how do you find her disease Sir ?  Alas Sir , no such thing could happen since her coming hither .  Who I ? Alas I beleeve no such matter .  O , she does so quiddle it , shake it , and gripe it !  Who I ? Alack a day .  How do you now forsooth ?  How do you forsooth ?  How d ee doe ? how d ee doe , Mistris Tryman How i st now , ha ?  Alas shee cannot speak . I 'll call my Neighbour Mistres Sneakup . If any body can make her speak , 't is shee .  It shall be done : and you , I hope , shall see it .  How ! forty pound ?  VVhere are you sweet Widdow ? Look you , Look you : How do you like these patterns ?  From whom , I pray you ?  M.  Crasy writes to me for thirty pound ; the value of a Ring I had of him . I grant I am to pay threescore at my day of Marriage . But we are all mortall . And who knowes whether I shall live till to morrow .  O , but such payments never trouble a man . What the eye sees not —  Only for this sixty pound . 'T is for that Ring you weare , and I gave you upon our Contract . 'T is worth thirty pound ready mony .  Saist thou so , Sweetheart . Come Sir . Come in and tell your money —  SHee 's gone , shee 's gone : Was ever man so cheated ? Threescore pound for a Ring ; and the Ring gone too , for which I paid it : A moneths dyet and lodging , besides the charge of Physick and attendance . Five pound in dole bread , would have serv'd my house a twelve moneth . I am undone ; broke , Bankrupt : But thou Rogue shalt smart for all , now I have caught thee ,  Were you making up your packe to bee gone too ?  You and your Mistresse have made sweet Musick of me : Therefore sirrah quickly — Are the Beadles gone for ?  Therefore quickly , I say , as you were an Acter in the Cosenage , bring her to light , or —  I 'le make you sing another song sirrah : Are the Beadles come ?  Pretty I confesse . But that 's not the song must do it ; nor can any song please me at this time . Are the Beadles come ?  'T is but to trifle time : yet sing before you suffer . Worse then t'other this ; you shall sing in another place , to the whip , to the whip , Sir ? Bring in the Beadles , and away with him to Bridewell .  Sing a song that I shall like , and I will free thee .  I marry , that I like well .  Think you so Sir ?  City words use not to passe for songs Sir : Make you good the words of your song , Sir , and I  shall make my word good Sir : Come away Beadles .  O will you so Sir ?  These are good words indeed !  Yes , and divers Trunks of supposed Treasure , which I finde to bee Baggs of Nailes , and other old Iron , and all the Rings and Stones shee boasted in her Will are but Curtaine Rings , and Bricke-bats .  Well , come along Sir : But I will have a Guard upon you .  By your leave , Gallants , I have brought you Musick .  Good Mrs. Sneakup you are wide . I come to wish joy to the match , and to tell you I rejoyce , that I mist a Bridegrooms part .  You see I wear no Willow , and am merry . All 's true you told me , boy ?  Sing boy that song , If I have any griefe , it shall be all vented in a Hymeneall Song .  Excuse me Lady , though I was cozen'd of the Bride , I have no such malice ; 't is a song that the boy could sing by chance , and made by a couple that were lately married in Crooked-Lane .  Neighbour Crasie !  I will have nothing to say to man , woman , or child , while I live againe . 