 When it is all finished , doubtlesse it will be handsome .  I have pil'd up a Leash of thousand pounds in walls and windows there .  If all were as well tenanted and inhabited by worthy persons .  I would a few more of the Worshipful hereabouts , ( whether they be in Commission or not ) were as well minded that way as you are Sir ; we should  then have all sweet and clean , and that quickly too .  I hope , Sir , your best furtherance .  A comfortable hearing of a young man .  What comfort should I have , were my son such .  I would I could change a sonne w' you Sir .  I am sure there cannot be a worse , or more debauch'd reprobate then mine is living .  My tenant ! Blesse me from him . I had rather all my Rents were Bawdy houses .  And truly , sir , 't is the first to my knowledge that e're my daughter came into .  O Sir , I cannot enough admire that vertue in your sonne .  Hovve're his carriage seems distasteful unto you , I could afford ( vvith your allovvance , to make conditions of estate agreeable ) to give all that is mine to him vvith my daughter .  What do you think on 't sirs .  Will you consider of it Master Crossewill .  You do not mind my motion sir .  Yet you minde him it seems . But he , sir , cannot come , and desires you to hold him excus'd . He 's gone about some special undertaking , for the good of the Common-wealth , he sayes .  Good sir , put the Proposition to him , that I made my affection to him , urges it more and more , I never was so taken with a man .  The same affection governes her , she is not mine else .  What sayes he , Sir ?  Sure you mistake him , sir .  O rare , in a young man !  Most happy youth !  But what vertuous men has this man to his sons , and how they thrive in grace against his will , it seems .  In good truth sir , I am taken with your conversation . I like it now exceeding well .  'T is very faire and friendly , I finde we shall accord .  Then pray sir , let me urge my motion a little further to you .  That you will be pleased to accept my daughter for either of your sons , your youngest if you please , now I have seen him , I 'le give him with her presently , either in hand a thousand pound , and five hundred pound a childe as fast as he can get 'em . And all I shall die seiz'd of .  I hope you do think well on 't .  How say you , sir , is 't a match ?  Heaven blesse me and my childe too from matching with such a disposition .  Even please your selves then where you can like better , and you shall please me .  There 's no such haste , sir .  With all my heart , sir .  Good sir , either like my house well , or be pleas'd to please your self with some better .  He must have his way , I see .  You were not best let me instruct you . I can be angry too .  Pray let 'em do it in the next chamber , they are too bashful afore us . There are witnesses enough . Go all in , I pray you .  And now , pray give me leave sir , to let you know how happy I do hold my selfe in this marriage . I did like this Son better then the other before . And now I like him better then I did at my former view of him , by some Reformation that I do observe in him . And I do not a little rejoyce in the honour I may have to call you brother .  You may easily conceive , sir , what a comfort it will be unto me , that I now growing old , and having ( I give praise for 't , ) wealth enough , and no childe that I make account of but this one daughter , may , before I die , see Grandchildren that I may have by her sufficiently provided for , be they more or lesse in number , they may have enough .  Alack-a day , good Gentleman , my son in-law , perhaps , is heire already .  My wicked , caitiffe , reprobate son is here too .  Pray let me flee , I am but a dead man else .  Has his shame yet taught him to shunne my sight .  Unpossible , unpossible .  Heaven make him so . My blessing and my prayers shall not be wanting .  My Tenant , I take it , Mrs. Margerie Howlet .  That 's my son now , sir , by your leave , and I 'le baile him . 