 No : I am of other dyet to day .  May they sit merry with their cheer ,  while I feed on this hard meat . And wait  you within : I shall not change a trencher .  Here are the nests , but all the  He takes up the bags .   Birds are flown .  How easie a thing it is to be undone ,  When credulous Man will trust his ' state to others !  Am I drawn dry ? Not so much as the Lees left ?  Nothing but empty Cask ? have I no refuge  To fly to now ? Yes , here , about a groats worth  He takes up the bils & papers .   Of paper it was once . Would I had now  Greens groats-worth of wit for it . But 't will serve  To light tobacco-pipes . Here ( let me see )  Here is three hundred pound , two hundred here .  And here one hundred , and two hundred here ;  Fifty ; fifty ; fifty ; and one hundred here ,  And here one hundred and fifty . Besides  A many parcells of small debts , which make  Two hundred more . I shall not live to tell it ,  But put it up , and take it by the weight .  He puts the Bills & Bonds into a Bag.    O me ! how heavy 't is ! And , doubtless , so 't would be  At some mans heart . It troubles me a little .  Enter Jeremy .   Now what newes ?  These they are ; My debts ,  That strike me through . This bag will never pay  Any of these .  How well it were , if any of my Creditors  Could once but dream that this were current mony !  Even what thou wilt , good Jeremy .  But I hope  Few of the last appeare .  To feed on ; do they ? Goe . I will not come .  Prithee go in . And if they seem to stay ,  Pray 'em fall too ; tell 'em I take this time  Only to order my Accompts , and that as soon  As they are full , and fit to talk , I 'le come :  Good Jeremie goe .  A right good Boy thou art . I think on thee :  What must I do now ? All I have is lost ,  And what I have not , sought to be forc'd from me ,  I must take nimble hold upon Occasion ,  Or lie for ever in the Bankrupt ditch ,  Where no man lends a hand to draw one out .  I will leape over it , or fall bravely in 't ,  Scorning the Bridge of Baseness , Composition ,  Which doth infect a City like the Plague ,  And teach men Knavery , that were never born to 't :  Whereby the Rope-deserving Rascall gains  Purple and Furrs , Trappings and golden Chaines .  Base Composition , baser far then Want ,  Then Beggery , Imprisonment , Slavery :  I scorn thee , though thou lov'st a Trades-man dearly  And mak'st a Chandler Lord of thousands yearly .  I will have other ayd . How now ! Againe ?  Hast thou no newes , Jeremie ?  Why what of her ?  Is there a Plate lost , or a ' Postle-spoon  A China Dish broke , or an ancient Glass ,  And stain'd with Wine her Damasque table-cloath ?  Or is the Salt faln towards her ? What 's the matter ?  What Good , good Jeremie ?  She 's drunk ; Is she not , Jeremie ?  What raging Rout hath rent thy rest ;  What Scold hath scutch'd thy skonce :  Sir , you have the civill vertue of Patience in you . Dear Sir hear me .  All was but my kind heart in trusting , in trusting , Father .  What would you , dear Father , that I should do now ?  Be yet but pleased to answer me , good Sir . May not an honest man —  If my uncunning Disposition be my only vice , then Father —  It may be defect in your Daughter , as probable as in me .  Well : If to be honest , be to be a fool , my utmost  Ambition is a Coxcomb . Sir , I crave your farewell .  Why you heare the noyse of that woman of Sound , your Mother . I must travell down , or not keep up . Yet —  A fortnight at the least ; and a moneth at the most .  Nay but Gentlemen : A little of your patience you all know your own Debts , and my almost impudent necessities , satisfie me , that J may discharge others . Will you suffer me to sink under my Freenes ? shall my goodnesse , and ready Pietie undoe me ? Sir Andrew Ticket , you are a profest Courtier , and should have a tender sense of honor . This is your day of payment for two hundred pound .  O , Sir , now you are in favour , you will know no body .  O Master Sarpego ! I know you will satisfie your own driblet of ten pound , I lent you out of my Purse .  Answer me my monyes I beseech you .  Enough ?  Mr. Rufflit —  I hope it is not the fashion , for a Gallant of fashion , to break for so small a Portion as the summe of an hundred Angells .  I lent it you on your single word .  Fifty pound .  You are right Mr. Linsie wolsie ! I would my Genius had directed me , to deale alwayes with such  honest neighbourly men as your selfe . I hope you will not deny me a Curtesie .  You took once a Jewell of me , which you sold for thirty pound , for which I have your Bond for sixty , at your day of mariage . If you will now , because I want present money , give me but twenty pound , I 'll acquit you .  Is this the end of unsuspicious Freenesse ?  Are open hands of Chearfull Pietie ,  A helpfull bounty , and most easie Goodnesse ,  Rewarded thus ?  Is , to be honest , term'd to be a fool ?  Respect it Heaven . Beare up still merry heart .  Droop not : But scorne the worlds unjust despising .  Who through Goodnesse sinks , his fall's his Rising .  O Master , Master , upon my knowledge , my Mistres is forced since your departure to be   What Jeremy ?  Boy . Didst never observe at the Court gate , that the Lord was no sooner off from his Horse-back but the Lackey got up into the Saddle and rode home ?  I scorne not my Betters Fortune . And what is not my sinne , shall never be my shame .  Boy , thou art now my Prentice . From hence be free . Poverty shall serve it selfe . Yet do one thing for me .  If ever it be in thy possible ability , wrong all Men , use thy wit , to abuse all things , that have but sence of wrong : For without mercie , all men have injur'd thy mistrustles Master , Milk'd my thoughts from my heart , and money from my Purse , and , last , laught at my Credulity . Cheat , chosen , live by thy Wits : T is most manly , therefore most noble . Horses get their living by their Backs , Oxen by their necks , Swine and Women by their Flesh , Only man by his Braine . In briefe be a knave and prosper : For honesty has beggerd me .  I am resolv'd I will revenge . I never provok'd my braine yet . But now if I clap not fire in the tayles of some of these Samsons Foxes — seems my defect of Fortune want of wit ? Noe .  The sense of our slight sports confess'd shall have ,  That any may be rich , will be a knave .  Belov'd of Phoebus , Minion of the Muses , deare Water Bayley of Helicon , let it not be distastfull to thy Divine eares , to receive the humble Petition of a poore Creature , made miserable by the policie of Providence . That thy rare and absolute munificence might supply what fortune had left defective : I kisse thy learned toes .  I am not fed with Figures Sir .  Right eloquent and well-phrased Sir , my education has been liberall . I sometimes fed my flock on horned Parnassus : But my wants forc'd me to my Sword .  That I may ever remaine a true man — Extend .  The Sun , Moon and the seven Planets are my invoked witnesses , I should be grieved , that necessity should make me grow violent on so adored , adorned Grammaticall Disciplinary — Be gracious in Contribution — Sir —  Sir , this Sword can bite — But , J know you had rather give it freely out of your own Proclivitie .  If I might in modesty importune the poore price of a Supper too .  If I might not seem audacious even to impudence , I poore Freshman in Literature , would implore  of your well-salted , & best season'd vertue , some larger allowance to supply my defects of Rayment , Books , and other necessaries : which magnificence shall ever intitle you , my most bounteous Macaenas . Be induc'd to it Sir .  O yes Sir , I understand this Figure too very well . Now deare Mecenas , let me implore a Purse to inclose these Monyes in — Nay if you impart not with a chearfull forhead , Sir   May you be importun'd to do it , Sir .  T is no matter . As it is , As it is , good Sir , as it is . I le accept it as it is . Most fragrant-phrased Master , suffer thy selfe to be intreated . Doe —  Most exorbitantly bounteous Mecenas , you have given me all this , have you not ?  Yes , yes , but as your gift . Iove blesse thy browes , and make cleer thy Phisnomy . Vale . Your learned Worship stincks .  O fearfull curse ! Well ; I haye given my first pinch , and a little scratch'd my Goat-bearded Grammarian , that Broke jests on my uncunning easiness . But he with the rest shall feele , that modest Simplicity is not alwayes a defect of wit , but will : What my willing honesty hath seem'd to loose , my affected deceits shall recover . I 'le rid 'em one after another , like Guts , till they shall stink worse then Jewes .  And they shall find with most ashamed eyes ,  The honest Breast lives only rich and wise .  Exquisite ; very Elixir of Beauty , vouchsafe to receive the tender of my Faith to you ; which I protest is zealously devoted to your particular service .  Then , Lady , let it be spoken in bold phrase , I love you .  My name is Pulse-feel : A poor Doctor of Physick , that weares three-pile velvet in his Cap ; has paid a quarters rent of his house afore-hand ; and as meanly as he stands here , was made Doctor beyond the Seas . I vow ( as I am right Worshipfull ) the taking of my Degree cost me twelve French crowns , and five and thirty pound of salt Butter in upper Germany . I can make your beauty , and preserve it ; Rectifie your Body , and maintain it ; perfume your skin ; tinct your haire ; enliven your Eye ; Heighten your Appetite . As for Gellies , Dentifrices , Diets , Minerall Fucusses , Pomatums , Fumes , Italian Masks to sleep in , either to moysten , or  dry the Superficies of your face ; paugh , Gallen was a Goose , and Paracelsus a Patch to Doctor Pulse-feel . Make me then happy , deare sweeting , in your private favours : The which I vow with as much secrefie , constancie and Resolution , to preserve , as you , with Bounty , sweetnesse and Freenes shall impart .  Then I le attend you at your Chamber : where the best pleasure , youth , Cupid can minister shall entertaine you .  Nothing but kisse you Lady , and so forth .  I will be provident .  Good .  I understand you . This be my pledg of faith .  Rely upon me . I can fit you rarely . I know a well qualified fellow , that danceth rarely , playes on divers  Instruments , and withall is close .  I will maintain it . He only , that knows it , permits , and procures it , is truly a Cuckold . Some fellow would be divorc'd now . Crasie , speak ; wilt be divorc'd ? why , what and I were ? why then thou art an Asse , Crasie . Why Sir ? why Sir ! why prithee tell me , what would thy Divorce hurt her ? It would but give her more liberty . Shee should have bounteous Customers ; Gallants , that would hoist her tires , bestow deep on her . And she should be paid for 't . You speak somewhat to the matter Sir . Nay Crasie , believe it , though she be not a very modest woman for a Wife , thou mayst force her to be a reasonable private wench for a Whore . Say you so ? Birlady , and I 'le take your Counsell . 'T is a pretty Drabb . I know not where to compasse such another ? troth Sir , I 'le follow your advice .  And , if my hopes prove not extreamly ill ,  I 'le keep her flesh chast , though against her will .  He tooke her by the middle so small  And laid her on the Plain :  And when he had his will on her ,  He tooke her up againe .  And what was she then the worse for wearing ?  Can you tell Mr. Doctor ?  One Sir ( I dare tell you in private ) that can conduct you to a more lovely Creature , then her you last courted .  The young and the old mun too 't , mun too 't ,  The young and the old mun to it ;  The young ones will learn to do 't , to do 't ,  And the Old forget not to do it .  As delicate a piece of Woman-flesh as ever Mortall laid lip to . O she is all Venus ! And , to come close to you , shee wants a Physician . You are one I take it : I am a foole else .  O she is , she is a matchlesse piece ,  Though all the world may wooe her ;  Nor golden showre , nor golden fleece ,  Is price enough to do her .  For what you please , when you come to her . Sir , upon my life , shee 's free from any Disease , but the Counterfeits . Will you know all Sir ? she wants a wise mans counsell to assist her in getting a Husband . I take hold of you for that wise man , shee relyes upon my Election . Will you go Sir ? T is in an exceeding civill  house ; a precise one , indeed . Know you not Mr. Linsey Woolsey ?  Pardon me Sir . At his very house . All the wise wenches i' the Town will thwack to such Sanctuaries , when the times are troublesome , and Troopers trace the streets in terror .  There she lies Sir , by the name of Mistresse Tryman ; a rich young Cornish Widdow ; though she was borne in Clearken-well ; and was never halfe a dayes Journey from Bride well in her life . Her Father was a Pinn-maker — Sings .  Along along , where the Gallants throng  By twenties , away the Widow to carry :  But let them tarry : For shee will carry  Twenty , before that one she will Marry .  Will you along Sir ?  O here he is ! Mr. Wolsie , indeed my Master Wolsie , if ever you will see my Mistres your Sweetheart alive , you must goe home presently .  I thinke shee is ; and that in death she will be so . I speak by what she sayes , and others think .  O shee is even speechlesse , and calls for you exceedingly . I fetcht a Doctor to her , and he can do her no good . Master Sarpego has made her Will and all .  Quickly goe and see Sir , you will come too late else , I am going to get the Bell to towle for her .  Sing .  Did never truer heart  Out of the World depart ,  Or cause the Bel to towle .  No no , apply more warme cloaths to her stomack , there the matter lyes which sends this distemperature into her braine . Be of good cheer Gentlewoman .  Pox o' your Complement .  I will work close and friendly with thee . Therefore say , this rich Cockscombe is thine owne . O here comes your Pigg-wiggen .  Well : He never sung to the wheele in Saint Brides Nunnery yonder .  By Indenture Tripartite , and 't please you , like Subtle , Doll , and Face .  Not the high Holborne way , I hope Sir .  Among the Mercers , so troubled , as if all the Sattin in Cheapside were not enough to make you a wedding Gowne . He is over-joy'd that his happy day is at hand ; and I over-heard him invite one speciall friend to his Nuptialls . He cannot contain himself . On a sudden he fell a singing , O shee 's a dainty Widdow . O are you come Sir , in your new shape ? Dos not that beard fit you handsomly ? Thank my acquaintance with the Players .  If you can perform your part as well , 't is well . Heark , I hear him coming .  Your sometimes neighbor Sir , M : Crasy .  He scratches his head , though .  See my worshipfull Father-in-Law ! Now the Woodcocks shoot into the glade .  Who would you speak with Sir ?  Sir she is fallen into a new fit of Melancholy . Some new project she has in her noddle . But she desires you to worke upon this , [ he gives him a paper . ] I dare not be seen to talk with any body . — Exit .  I can confirm that he is yours protestedly . And to morrow night —  Ha! Tricks of twenty : Your Traverses , Slidings , Falling back , Jumps , Closings , Openings , Shorts , Turns , Pacings , Gracings — As for — Corantoes , Levoltoes , Jigs , Measures , Pavins , Brawls , Galliards , or Canaries , I speak it not swellingly , but I subscribe to no man .  O that Crasy was ever a silly fellow .  Your name is Mrs. Pyannet , I take it .  Your husband is cozen'd at Court , I take it .  That Lady Ticket is a cunning creature . I have been inward with her ; And such are my private Intelligences , that if equall curtesie might recompence , I could unshale a plot is upon you .  So it is , I am a decayed Gentleman , quite out of repaire ; fallen for want of means to the use of my feet : Nor have I hope to see better light , but onely that Love and Fortune have put upon me a right wealthy widdow . She lyes at a near neighbours house  here ; and here I hover about her : but for want of some good friends countenance , some meanes for cloaths and fit housing , she holds off from consummating our Marriage . Now Lady —  The very same .  Why then will I disclose who cozen'd you ; by what meanes you are injur'd , and how you may be reveng'd , onely you shal vow to conceale the secret-revealer , else you lose the benefit of further Intelligence .  Sure , precious Mistresse , very absolute creatures have had Cockscombs to their husbands .  Marry to bee made Cuckqueane by such a Cockscombe , to have her Jewells prig'd away , to bestow on a Court Mistresse ; to have a trick put upon her , as you have , 't would move ( I must confesse ) a woman that were not part a Philosopher , and had a strong wit as you have . Why did you not feele the deceit ? your husbands unworthinesse , having no meanes to enjoy this Court-Lady but by gifts ; and having no course for gifts , but from you , procures some Pander to performe a fam'd message . Your hope of game puts  the weighty trust upon the counterfeit fool your husband ; his simplicity seems cozen'd , whilst this Lady excuses all , and keeps all : So that your own Jewells purchase your owne horns ; nay , and you were not withall laught at for your purchase , 't were scarce enough to run mad for .  Ha , ha , ha : Will you not be offended , if I read them truly ?  Stay , it seems you have written to them .  Faith you le be angry .  Sir Andrew here , he sayes , t is not your broad rim'd hat , your tiffeny dresse , Spanish ruffe , and silver bodkin can make him disloyall to his wives bed . Rufflit here , he writes that you have a grosse body , a dull eye , a lowe forehead , a black tooth , a fat hand , and a most lean purse . I there 's it : And you could but give , and you had but to send —  I , the lean purse . There 's the Devill : Were you as bald as Time , as stiffly wrinkled as frozen plow'd Lands , more dry then a Fever , more leane then  death ; had you ingross'd deformity , yet if you had but to give —  Nay faith , rather a fool , Mistresse .  Nay , but I would not wish you to send them now : What , relieve the base wants of prating Skipjacks to pay for your damnation ?  And yet , i faith , what can a Gentlewoman give too much for her pleasure ? Can there be a more heavy disgrace blowne abroad upon any Lady , then that she has not at the least two servants , since many Lovers are the onely noble approvement of beauty ?  But both of them to Mr. Rufflit : Oh , hee 's an absolute spirit ! He has an English face , a French tongue , a Spanish heart , an Irish hand , a Welch Leg , a Scotch beard , and a Dutch buttock .  O but Sir Andrew , he is a Courtly Lover : He can kisse you courtly , handle you Courtly , lye with you Courtly .  Peace Sir , forbeare : As you would hope , doe not pursue a woman when she is out of the humor . O , untimely importunity is most distastfull . There are certain seasons to take the coldest Appetite , when she is pinning a Ruffe , playing with a Monkey , hearing a wanton Song , or half drunk .  A private Messenger to you Sir , from the Gentlewoman you pursue . This is your hand , is it not ?  You may keep your Letter .  Only that you are poor , a Gallant of a very wanting fortune .  Alas , I think her means are but weak , her husbands sinking hath brought her low .  I wonder his wife could nourish so unbelieving a conscience !  You have spoken most edifyingly sir , but for you , of whom I understand Crasy merits the best Offices ; for you to corrupt his Wife , and with a covetous sinning expect use for the loan of your Loines !  Yes Sir , if you could compasse her ; as sure she may be corrupted : for she is very covetous .  Only not to appeare of so needy a Fortune — Why if you chance to possess her .  Wealthy ! look you Sir , Here are two of her Jewels , I fetcht from an Ant of hers , where they lay hid from her Husband . These are not worth the pursuit .  Oh the better . Your lean No-bodies with yellow Manes have most commonly rotten teeth and wicked breaths . No , your full plump Woman is your only Venus .  Oh Sir , these both were yours , and they too . She pretends this straine , but onely to explore your strength of means , and to try how far you dare engage them for her enjoying .  Sir Andrew Ticket , I take it .  My Vow 's discharg'd , and her Revenge is done . I am no Pandar , Sir , and yet I am of Counsell with Smock secrets , Buttock businesse Sir .  Are you so stale a Courtier , and know not the necessity of Gifts ?  Why ? would it not provoke any Woman to be called foole , and foule-face ?  No ; Do you not intimate she is a foole , when you hope to enjoy her without a Gift ? And foule , when your neglect of cost saies she deserves none .  Why Sir ? A man must do as he would be done to . Do you , or any man use to be made Cuckhold for nothing ?  May ; Nay can ; nay will . Look you Sir , here 's Gold . Here are Jewels . They are hers ; they may be yours . I would not seem a Pandar to you though ; for you have a Wife Sir .  And then to send but a trifle would disgrace both .  And how deare you hold her . Sir , I can speak ; but I use to take nothing for my paines .  Only not to appeare Uncourtly , or uncivill . I protest I abhor Pandarisme ; only as a second , or so . As you have beheld two Horses knubbing one another ; Ka me , Ka thee , an old kind of Courtship .  I have procur'd a private Stable for my Horse : And therefore I my selfe would be loth to stand at Livery .  Dost compare common Stables for Horses , and publick Ordinaries for Gallants together .  Troth yes sir , for as in Stables , here a goodly Gelding of twenty Pounds price , & there a raw-backd Jade of foure Nobles by him . So at Ordinaries , here a worthy Fellow of means and virtue , and there a Cheating Shifter of wants and cosenage . Here a Knight , there a Beggar ; Here a Gallant , there a Gull : Here a Courtier , there a Coxcomb ; Here a Justice of Peace , and there an Esquire of low Degree . Or , in direct Phrase , a Pandar .  Umh , Virtue goes often wetshod , and is forc'd to be cobled up with base means , to hold out water and cold necessity . You command me no further sir .  Yes , they prov'd acceptive ,  Can they be damn'd ? Before I will undergoe againe such a business — fore Heaven I do as little differ from a Pander ! only I have nothing for my pains , or else —  Are your own wishes happy ?  Will you make me a Bawde . What a Bawde ?  And yet introth , what would not a man be for your sake , that have such wit and such bounty !  I cannot refuse , but suffer your Virtue to be exercis'd upon me .  Why , I le tell you , they are both your own .  Why , no more but this ; they are both yours ; only you know , but one hand in a Glove at once . But I had so much to do with one of them ; such a coyle to draw him to it —  Yes marry does he , which the worthy Knight takes so contemptuously , suffering so base a Rivall , that he vowes , unless you beat him , bastinado him soundly when he comes , he will loath you most constantly .  Welsaid Mistress , be resolute . I mean to help you my selfe .  Yes , I will write to Sir Andrew 〈…〉 that , which he shall have small cause to thank me for . I wil write for him to come in the habit of this Doctor . My●   Mercy , dear Sir , mercy .  Nothing but my own Sir , my Lute , and a few Musick-books .  Shee 's light enough her self : But a very Innocent I , Sir . She has cozen'd me of halfe a years service , wrought me off o' my leggs , strain'd my backe , crack'd my voyce , done me to my utter undoing ; and can you think I knew of her running away ?  Any song Sir , or as many as you please .  Deare Sir , let 'em forbeare a little . And if I cannot please you with a song , commit me to their fury .  Yet once more , good Sir , try me this last time , and but promise me , if I can sing a song that you shall like , to forgive and free me .  Then I have 'scap'd the whip .  Yes : For you like the song well , you say , and I am free ; I hope you will make good your noble City word , Sir .  O stay Sir , I beseech you , and let your Justice fall on the right shoulders . I 'le confesse all .  'T is most true Sir , that the Gentlewoman ; whom I call'd Mistress , is a most cunning whore , and a notorious cheat .  Shee came to your house with foure men in Liveries ; they were all but hired Pandars .  Your owne covetousness cozen'd you Sir : But if I now bring you not where you shall see how shee is since bestowed , and that you finde not hearty cause to rejoyce that you were cozen'd of her , let me be whipp'd to death , Sir .  What Guard you please Sir , so my poore skin may scape the Lash-guards . —  Are you so .  Is there honesty in this dealing ?  T is very well . If there be no Law upon words , Oathes and Pre-contracts , and Witness . If a man may spend a hundred Angels upon a Widdow ; have her affied before Witness , and then have his Nose wip'd of her . Why , T is very well .  Nay , I hope as long as I am a Subject , I shall have Law : I doubt not but I shall have Law .  To disclaim my right in you , I le take 't . Here 's my hand , I le take it .  Scorn my Poverty ! Come , where i st ? Because I have not the Muck of the World . Come , the money .  Yes most freely .  I do , marry . —  Why ! I am weary of money now : I have gotten more in a weeks Cosenage , then in all my daies of Honesty . VVhat an easie coole thing it is to be a rich Knave ! Gramercy Punck . A witty VVench is an excellent help at a dead lift . But in despite of the Justice that provok'd me , my Conscience a little turns at these  brain-tricks . But they have all been ungratefull ; ungratefull ! T is a sin that should have no mercy : t is the Plague-spot ; who has it should not live .  If holy wisdome from the thundring Cloud  Had given more Lawes then ten , this had ensu'd :  Avoid , O man , mans Shame , Ingratitude .  For my poor Lot , I could have sweetly slept  In quiet want , with resolute content ,  Had not defect of wit , uncurteous scorn  Been thrust upon me . Now they all shall feele ,  VVhen honest men revenge , their whips are steele .  My Courtiers are the next that I must exercise upon . This night my wife expects the embraces of one of them at least , if this hasty Marriage call her not from her Chamber . But she being a right woman may prevent that with a fained sicknesse , or so . Let me remember , J wrote to Rufflit to come like her Doctor Pulsefeele , to minister to her . This will jump right with a counterfeit sickness : It may , perhaps , break a Urinall about his Coxcomb .  How now ! O perceive this great Wedding goes forward .  So , this falls out pat . She is no sooner gone Sick to her Chamber , but here comes her Physitian , to cover and recover her in a trice .  Seignor Rufflit ; J am a foole if J took you not for a Physitian .  Right Sir , to avoid suspect : For which cause she has counterfeited herselfe sick , and lies longing and languishing till you minister to her .  Your Fortune sings in the right Cliff , sir , a wench as tender as a City Pullet .  Oh sir , health it selfe ; a very Restorative . VVill you in ? The way lies open before you .  Ho the hubbub 's rays'd , and my feare 's vanisht .  Hold , sweet Mistress .  Oh , it is not so much worth verily .  Nay , then I will tell you . Dare ! why t was your Friend and Rivall , Sir Andrew Ticket .  Even he sir . His Gold hir'd me to gull you . And this brain procur'd your beating . Yes faith sir , Envie , bribes , and wit have wrong upon you .  But how sir .  So sir , I must up to receive . —  Right sir , right sir . Take the Rope , and fasten it about your middle sir .  An Asse , an Asse .  Most true sir . Now mount sir . I pluck courageously . Pray Hercules my strength faile me not .  Alas the Cord sticks-sir ; I le call some help sir .  Passion of Heaven Doctor : I le Doctor you away .  Sure I was Planet-struck ; the rope stuck in a slit Sir .  Know you this mad Doctor ? Or do you owe any Doctor any thing ?  Speedily make up your face Sir , here comes company : M. Rufflit !  Hark Gentlemen , the Wedding comes , forget old bruises , and put on sense of the lightest colour : for this house to night vowes to run giddy with mirth and laughter .  O doubt not , Mr. Sarpego : For know Sir , I am but a poor serving creature , that lives upon expectation ;  Oh Sir my end must be husks . Feare not my discharge of the Prodigall —  Yes by my detestation to Bridewell Sir .  When the troth is , deare brother , you have married the rank whore . Ha ha ha .  And how doe you wife ? When comes your Doctor Pulsfeel ? But a kisse and so forth ? And would not one of these free Gallants , these proper youths have serv'd the turne ? I pray pardon mine incivility , Mother ; I was bold to retaine mine owne Jewells . Ha' you not forgot your singles and your doubles , your fallings back , and your turnings up wife ?  Yes , yes , yes , we are Friends . I heartily thank these kind Gentlemen for their loves to you , yes saith , heartily : I am better by it five hundred at least . Be not you jealous Madame , they had nothing for it ; not a bit by this Light .  True Gentlemen ; and your bounty likewise lies in this Bag .  I thank you for it ; we have but one Capacity in the Law , you know : What 's hers must be mine . I know thou wouldst have it so sweet-heart . I am onely sorry Gentlemen , that you were so well favourdly beaten . That the Foole Citizen , the Asse Citizen , the Cuckold Citizen should procure such a sound swadling to your wise , valiant and substantiall Shoulders . Is 't not a sore matter ? But rest , Salves and warm Oyles may in time recover it .  How do you kind Mother ? Gentlemen , if any of you want Money Gentlemen , here stands a City-wit that has it . I have it , if you want any ; speak , I have it , and will keep it . How does your Costard Sir ? A Pox o' th Slit , Sir . Belov'd of Phoebus , Minion of the Muses ; deare water bayly of Helicon , be not proud of your Preferment , though you are his Highnesse tutor . Mother , J take the restoring of my rich Jewels very kindly . O my kind Brother , you have got the rich Widdow ; and you have borne a brain Mother . Your hundred pound , brother , was most thristily and opportunely bestow'd . J could ha' procur'd her to you at an easier rate , Mother . J am onely sorry for you Mr. Wolsy , that you had her not : Because you very honourably releast me of your Bond before it was due ; and are in shrewd danger to be laught at among your Neighbours .  How does good Mr. Crasy , the Princes Jeweller ? Mother , did not my Father look too wise for a Citizen ? How dost honest Punck ? I am as much beholden to thee , as to the rest o' them .  O no , you shall be no loser by me ; you shall be a gainer by me Brother : Get wit Brother ( marke you ) wit . Good faith I pity the poore Citizen , hee has no wit ; a handsome young fellow , with a pretty beard , and a proper bodied woman to his wife , and cannot beare a brain !  Why mother , is your son grown such a sawcy Knave , as he thinkes scorne to be a Cuckold ? I cannot cleare him ; in truth I cannot : He has paid for her deeply , and 't is pity they should be parted , yes faith is 't .  Well , give me thy hand : I will love thee as long as there is swiftnesse in meditation , smoothnesse in flattery , or constancy in malice .  But is hee seriously thy brother ?  Well , Mr. Sarpego , I 'le help you to a fitter match , and Crack I will give thee something with her : Take the security of my hand .  I only desire to be secure from this mans fury , and so consequently from Bridewell .  He shall have nothing to say to thee .  Let us make this a merry night .  Think of no losses . Sirs , you shall have none ;  My honest care being but to keep mine owne .  What , by my slights , I got more then my due ,  I timely will restore again to you .  Omnes , Thanks kind Mr. Crasy , thanks . 