 Rare ? above excellent ( man ) it is unpossible  For a Painter to flatter her , or a Poet to bely her  In ayming to augment her beauty : For  I saw her that can judge .  Onely thrice  At Church , That 's once for every day , that shee  Has beautified this City .  Thence only springs the knowledge of her worth  Marke but the price shee 's cry'd at : two thousand Duccats  For her Maydenhead , and one moneths society .  Shee is indeed for beauty ,  Person , and Price , fit onely for a Prince :  I cannot thinke a lesse man then the Duke  Himselfe must beare her ; and indeed 't were pitty  That shee should sinne at lesse advantage .  Why Francisco ? Why ?  Although her price be such to be sold for  In ready money , shee is yet allow'd  To give herselfe for love if shee be pleas'd .  Who knowes how well shee may affect a man  ( As here and there a Woman may by chance )  Onely for vertue ? That 's worth our adventure ,  But I wish rather we could purchace her  At the set price betwixt us for a twelvemonth  Our friendship should not suffer us to grudge  At one anothers good turnes .  Come sad Francisco , wee 'l to morrow see  This Miracle of nature , whose meere sight  Will wipe away the injury thou sufferd'st  In Flavia ; and make thee quite forget her .  Good forbeare .  What are you ?  Shee has forsaken him , and is bestow'd  ( Forc'd by the torrent of her fathers will )  On young Fabritio , Pantalonies Sonne .  And Gentlemen ,  My Lodging is not farre , please you retire ,  And there repose your selfes untill the light  That now is near at hand , shall point you forth  A way to future comfort ; you shall finde  Good wine and welcome , please you to accept it   I understand you , Take mine honor of it .  You conclude well , lovers and sprights are  Night-walkers , warn'd away by th' morning Starre .  Most intirely ,  Please you to sit sir : Here 's a short potation .  T is well . Now know  T is for the good of your young Master here .  Is not Fabritio mist at home this morning ?  I know her , and will fit you with directions .  That is his drift , whereby he may inherit  From him the same licenciousnesse ; and make  The World acknowledge him the more his Son .  Nere doubt but doe 't then ,  We have beene plotting too .  I am for the Novella .  Let me in my approach admire that Object  That vindicates the voyce of Fame , in proving  Shee was no Lyer in the lowd reports ,  That blaz'd it for the Beauty of the World !  The Egiptians ,  Would they forbeare their wonted heathenish worship ,  And fall in adoration of this face —  Lady you must ,  You are so farre above the pitch of flattery  That highest courtship in our best of Language  Wants due expression of your supreame graces :  And not to tender you the heighth of prayse  Were mere Rusticity , rather prophanation .  No Courtier Lady ?  Nay dearest Lady , saving your displeasure —  I must come closer to her , shee 'l forget  Aside .   Shee is a whore else .  To tell you , Lady , now I like your wit  Equally with your beauty ; briefly of which  A word or two , and so unto our businesse .  ( You tax me with the losse of time already )  You doe consider fitly , that to praise  What we would purchace makes the value higher :  It is the chapmans rule to discommend .  Yes , where I finde the worth exceed the price .  And , that you know I doe esteeme your worth  Above all Salary , I yeild my selfe ,  Fraught with unvaluable Love and Honor  To be the due reward of your embraces .  You cannot thinke so poorely , or if so ,  Perceive them in a taste of my endowments .  First see my late composure ; where the flame  Of the soule-ravishing art of Poesy  May light your judgement 'bove the love of money .  To notes my voyce can master ?  However 't was well Sung , you seeme to slight  In such requitall , my esteeme of you :  But yet there rests in me a quality ,  I may suppose not so to be requited .  Please you command your Musick , I will Dance ,  To what you first shall name of latest practise .  To come the closer to you , the Novella .  Some other then .  I doe begin to doubt my qualities  Will not passe here in payment at the rate  My schooling cost me , when shee repayes all  I can bestow , in the same coyne againe :  But since I 'm in , I 'le on , and make the best  Both Face and Legs I can in 't .  How like you it Lady ?  I still had rather you were pleas'd to accept  Me and my whole deservings . I come to you .  If you esteeme of Courtship , Language , Quality ,  Sorting a Gentleman of best degree ,  The Mixture of whose knowledge with his practise  Cost thrice your golden Son ; let me and those  Be made the meed of your most sweet enjoying .  You doe not flout me Lady ?  Did ever woman talke so ?  I dreampt as much . Shee has a devillish wit .  Be hand'd .  Pox o' your Fates .  The Rogue , too , jeeres me ! sir I should doe well  To strike , or beat your undeserv'd Fee  Out of your bawdy Pocket .  Very good !  No more .  Ha' you done ?  T is the Rogues humor : I will give him something  For abusing me . There 's your Duccatoun  To worke more affability in your Mistris  Against my next approach .  Nor had one tast ( I sweare by life and honour )  Of all my hopes , more then her Hand and Lips .  I vow , for ought I know shee is a virgin .  Thinke of me then .  Respect it then , Adieu .  Against all force of armes , or braines .  I 'm sure she jeerd me out of my Monsieurship .  Shee lives at a good rate how ere maintaind .  Now Nicolo ?  Yes there he stands , translated out of sober  Italian into high Dutch .  Has he got her off ?  But how I pray thee scap'd they ?  A Bravo speake with me ?  Goe call him in , I feare no Knavery .  What! Is shee come about ? Has shee sent for mee ?  So would any man : Hee has hit his shape so right .  Your businesse then is to that strangers sir —  Francisco ! where ?  But are they Married ?  Goe I 'le follow thee .  Piso is here .  You have heard all Fabritio ; what doe thinke on 't ?  We wish you safe aboard sir .  And I to honour .  I cannot promise that .  And what thinke you of this ?  Wee 'l all observe you Lady .  Here we may see , and heare all undiscover'd .  Shee invokes vertue .  And he should come now .  T is timely chidden wench , we will obay thee .  Our Eares and Eyes , Fabritio , witnesse for her .  Pi . &c. Fabritio ! 