 Thanks for your cheer and full bounty of Entertainment , good Mr. Sneakup .  WEE take our leaves Mr. Crasy , and wish good Journey to you .  Blood of Bacchus , t is true , t is my day , what then ? Dost take me for a Cittizen , that thou thinkest I 'll keep my day ? No , thou 'st find that I am a Courtier , let my day keep me and 't will . But dost heare ? Come to the Court . J will not say what I will do for thee . But come to the Court . I ow the two hundred pounds : I 'll not deny 't , if thou ask seven years hence for 't , farewell . I say no more , but come to the Court , and see if I will know thee .  True : t is just . Why should we , when we are in favour know any body ; when , if we be in disgrace , no body will know us ? Farewell honest Tradesman .  A Widdow ! what is shee ? or of whence ?  But how is she purs'd , Jack ? Is she strong that way ?  How man !  I sweare I le help thee all I can . How didst find her out ?  Who , Linsy wolsie , the Hermaphroditicall Draper ! That 's a precious Nott-headed Rascall . Hee 'll goe neare to ayme at her himselfe .  A Tanner , well Jack , cake heed how thou ventur'st on her to make her a Gentlewoman : She will kill thee at her Husbands occupation before thou wile be able to make her Hide gentle . Thou wilt find a tough peece of Curriers work on her . Look who here is .  How 's this ? let 's stand aside a little .  And what a Tutor he has pickt out to instruct him !  We overheard you man : And I guest as much before .  Thou hast introth Boy : And on purpose to have her thy selfe , I perceive it .  Well , if I were a Batchelor , I should envy thy wit , and thy fortune . Is she very handsome ?  We expect nothing .  Very comfortably spoken !  We rather hold our selves dignified , in being his indear'd Companions .  By the service I owe you sweet Mistres , t is unfained . My Wife desires to see you .  Where the best entertainment a poore Ladyes chamber can afford , shall expect you .  O let us heare the Will .  Alas , he has over-studied himself ! You were best let blood in time Sir .  Do you not want sleep sir ?  Or have you not over-mus'd , or over-thought your selfe , as wee doubt Mr. Sarpego , here , has done ?  Hee shall stay at my Wives Chamber .  Good Mrs. Pyannet , bear 't as well as you may : Your losse is heavy , yet under the strength of your constant wisdome — I faith my wife was so carefull lest you should take too deep sense of it , that she importun'd my own presence to comfort you : For sure I know —  What mean you ? you amaze me .  Blesse us !  The same , Sir . Is Mrs. Crasie within ? I cannot keep pace with her Mother . O , when jealousie is once set a going , it runs on high speed . But let her make hast to arrive at Court , while I land on her Daughter in the City . Is she privately idle ?  What dost thou mean by that ?  Is that the matter I am rejected by her ?  I never call'd her so , by the Soule of my Affection , not I .  'Fore Heaven I was a silly Asse , now I think on 't , to send a Sonnet without some rich present .  I should have sent a Gift . What , if I enjoy her , she may requite it .  Pish , who cares to drink out of a River ? What I can command out of duty hath but a dull relish . Had not Danae been kept in her brass Tower , she had never tempted a Gods piercing . I must send , though it be but to shew the ability of my Fortune , and the desert of her Beauty .  Hold , convey this Carckanet unto her ; t is of value , and let her read by this , how much I seek her .  Yes , receive this little — Nay , I prethee .  I prethee return instantly my success : You shall find me at the Ordinary ; come and Dine with me .  Such a one as thou art .  No honest Knave , farewell —  Now Mr. Crasy , will I button up your Cap with a Court-brooch .  You demand Debts , do you ? I le pay you none . Oh t was a notable dull Flat-Cap . He would invite Courtiers ; stand bare , say grace , make legs , kiss his hand , serve us in perfum'd linnen , and lend us money upon our words , or bare words . Were 't not a sin to  let such a foole passe unsuckt ? No , Fortune drest him only for us to feed on , and I le fall to .  Vanish Sirrah with the Light . This I am sure is the Window which her Letters call'd me to .  Hist , Footwell , Footwell .  I will mount , remount , and surmount . I wonder that there is not a solemne Statute made , that no Citizen should marry a handsome Woman ; Or if he did , not to lye with her . For and t were not for Gallants  help , they would beget nothing but Fooles .  Why , that 's Crasy ; a very Coxcomb .  A meer Citizen . Were 't not a shame his wife should be honest ? Or is 't not pity that my own man should wholly enjoy a rare excellent proper woman . when a whole Corporation scarce affords two of them .  Pox , and pain ! Hold Doctor .  I am most sensible of your Salutation . Pluck Footwell .  Death and Devils !  Heart , Lungs , Lights .  Help , help , help .  Redeem me deare Footwell   Sore ? Couldst thou not pluck ?  A Pox o' the slit , say I .  I know him not ; nor do I owe any Doctor any thing ; I onely owe my Barber-Surgeon for a dyetdrink .  As heartily as thou wilt ; but not so hard I prethee .  I bruis'd my side e'en now against a formes edge .  Flead Cat ?  Unbruis'd bones , and smooth foreheads to you both .  I have not known him in this humor .  Let us attend I pray ; the Prologue enters .  Plague of a Villain , that was my Jewell . 