 I but obey'd the Queen .  I hope shee 'l answer 't .  And for this ,  Less then a King I shall abhor to kiss .  VVhat have I done amiss ?  Impudence ? Sir , pray give it the right name ,  Courtship , 't was Courtship Sir , if I have learn'd  Any since I came here .  Besides Sir , the Kings kisses  Are great inestimable Honours , and  VVhat Lady would not think her self the more  Honour'd , by how much the King did kiss her ?  It might be thought so .  I know he dares not beat me here . Pray Sir  Let me but ask you this , then use your pleasure :  ( Cause you stile Impudence , that which I call Courtship )  VVhat Courtier sits down satisfied with the first  Office or Honour is confer'd upon him ?  If he does so , he leaves to be a Courtier .  And not the thing we treat of . Did your self  After the King had grac'd you once , twice , thrice ,  ( As he kiss'd me ) expect no further from him ?  How many Offices  Did you run through before you were made General ?  And as the more the King confers upon us ,  Is more our Honour , so 't is more the Kings ,  VVhen most his Favours shine upon Desert .  Pray Sir , take heed : Kings Mistrisses must not  Be call'd so .  Yes , Sir ;  If you dare think me worth the Kings embraces ,  In that neer kind , howe ' er you please to stile it :  Sure I shall dare , and be allow'd to speak .  Dear Sir , take heed ; Protest I dare not hear you :  Suppose I were advanc'd so far above you  To be your Queen , would you be therefore desperate ,  And fall from what you are to nothing ? Pray  Utter no more such words , I 'd have you live .  VVhy if I should , I hope that were no Treason :  Nor if I were a Queen , were that sufficient  VVarrant for you , to utter Treason by ,  Because you were my Father ; No dear Sir ,  Let not your Passion be Master of your Tongue .  Because you were my Father .  Soveraignty you know , admits no Parentage .  Honour , poor petty Honour forgets Descent .  Let but a silly Daughter of a City  Become a Countesse , and note how squeamishly  She takes the wind of her Progenitors .  You will not kill your Child ?  Not for the Jewel in your Ear .  Know where you are , Sir , at Court , the Kings House .  Mount , mount , my thoughts , above the earthy  Of Vassal minds , whilst strength of womans wit ( pitch  Props my Ambition up , and lifts my hope  Above the flight of Envy . Let the base  And abject mindes be pleas'd with servile Bondage ;  My Breast breeds not a thought that shall not flie  The lofty height of towring Majesty .  My power upon the weakness of the King  ( Whose raging Dotage to obtain my Love ,  Like a devouring flame , seeks to consume  All interposed Le ts ) hath laid a Ground-vvork  So sure upon those Ruines , that the power  Of Fate shall not controul , or stop my building  Up to the top of Soveraignty , vvhere I 'll stand  And dare the VVorld to dis-commend my Act :  It shall but say , when I the Crown have won ,  The vvork was harsh in doing , but well done .  Flavello , welcom !  'T is a brave sound , and that vvhich my Soul thirsts for ;  But do not mock mine Ears .  Stile thy self happy then , in vvhat Reward  A Subject can receive , or a Queen give .  How moves our great proceedings ?  Advance that Harmonie .  Appear the proofs manifest ?  That vvithout your instruction .  VVas that enough ?  What Witnesses were next ?  What could the Queen say then ?  Hast , Flavello , hast ,  And let thy next news be to this a Crown ,  That she is not a Queen , and I am one .  This Father and this Queen I now could pity ,  For being hew'd out and squar'd thus to my use ,  But that they make those necessary steps  By which I must ascend to my Ambition .  They that will rise unto a supream Head ,  Should not regard upon whose Necks they tread .  O gross Hypocrisie !  She would fain seem to voyce in your behalf ,  But in a way that much perswades against you .  Do but your Highness note it .  I fear shee 'l turn him  Traytor , if he give more ear to her inchantments .  Sir , I may not sit to be taunted and upbraided thus .  I am plainly jeer'd : hence that woman .  For all the Feasts , the Triumphs and the Glories  That have been spent , at price of great Estates ,  In celebration of my high Advancement ;  For all the King has in his present being ,  His Love to boot , assur'd in highest measure ;  Me-thinks there is yet wanting an Addition  To crown my Happiness : all 's not safe hereafter ;  I cannot safely say I am his Wife ,  While th' other seems contented with a Life . Flavello !  O most Coelestial sound !  Here 's all your business granted .  See the Kings hand to all : do you mistrust me ?  If you but manage the Profits of my Favours with a discreet Hand now , you may soon finde the difference between a Mignion , and the Son of a Dish-Maker .  Oh Divine !  Do you know the village where that woman lives ?  I 'm very sick to name her or her Son .  O but that Woman , and that hated Boy .  Thou art a base  Ingrateful Villain to name her to me ;  Thou hear'st me say , I dare not speak her name ,  Yet thou dar'st stab mine Ears again , with it .  Had some receiv'd the Favours thou hast done ,  Or could but dream of half thou' rt like to have ,  I should not fear her Ghost ; but thou art dull .  For what respect , young Prince ?  My Lord , my Love , what pretty meaning have you ?  Do you bring your Son to mock me ?  I would not move your Anger : pray let this win your Reconcilement .  I , Sir , shall be so reasonable , that  I doubt not upon the way , or there at very instant ,  To crave past my Desert .  And by the way , Sir , let it be my Suit ,  We give a Visit to distrest Eulalia ;  Wherein we may do Charity fitting Princes ;  ( We may perhaps give Order for her Burial )  An Earldome be thou sure of , wise Flavello ,  To add to thy improvements : Though it be  No full Discovery , I 'll make it serve ,  As I will fashion it , to excellent use .  Poyson or Sword thou heardst him speak ?  VVrite , Flavello , write ,  VVrite by that Copy in a States-Man's hand .  Alas , good men ! I dare even swear for them ,  How ere those words might fall in their discourse ,  They had no thought of me : yet this surmise  Gives me an hint to try her Loyaltie ,  Or make her once more guiltie : for my State  Stands by the King , as unto her his hate .  Read it Flavello .  Most Royal and most wronged Soveraign Mistress , be happily assured that the time of your Restoration is at hand : and that by no loss means then the death of that she-monster that usurps your Dignitie . All shall be determin'd at Nicosia , by  Your devoted Servant unto death . Nameless .  'T is well .  It needs no superscription : only seal it ,  And think of your directions and disguise .  'T is but your half days journey : and be sure  VVe are not far behind you .  Now to the King ,  Of whose despight I still must sharp the sting .  No news yet ? no return ?  You made not choise of men of Resolution .  Many that pass for Souldiers dare swear valiantly ,  That dare not fight .  Thou hast done nothing whilst that woman lives .  The work was not so course , that your own hand  Could have disdain'd it , Sir , if you had lov'd me .  So leave me , negligent Fellow .  I must not , will not name it : but you said  You would do something , which it seems  Your wavering love neglects .  Y'  are dull in your performances : I will  Not name a request the second time , although my life ,  Your dignitie , and your Kingdoms safetie ,  Lie on the rack for 't .  Is she pursu'd and put to death ?  Nay , I have said again .  VVhat , my dear Father ?  This is a token most infallible ,  The Jewel that none but the cold hand of Death  Could ravish from him : 'T is done :  The fear of him is like a storm blown ore :  'T is done but this is yet but part of that full satisfaction  That must confirm my safetie : Pray my Lord ,  You fatal instrument of my Fathers blood ,  Let me not look upon you .  Alas my Lord , think you withall , a Father  Is not so early forgot . But sorrow leave me ,  And do you give me leave to think , that now  It is no less a Childs part to embrace  Revenge then sorrow for a Fathers loss .  She lives that was his Ruine .  You may remember whom I mean : Eulalia .  Till now , I had no Plea against her life :  Onely my care of you might wish her Death ,  For your security . Her fowl Adultery  And secret Practices against your Crown ,  Were nothing unto me , compar'd with this .  Now I have lost a Father : she the cause :  He suffers , she survives : where are your Laws ?  Content your self great Sir ,  With your black infamie : sit down content  On your Majestick Throne , the President  Of Capital contented Cuckolds , do ,  Till all your Subjects dance the Hornpipe too .  Think what ?  VVhat on a course to be reveng'd on you ?  To serve you in that kind my self ?  Or rather , let me think your lustful purpose  VVas but to rob me of my Virgin-Honour .  And that you put her by but for a time ,  Until my youth had quench'd your Appetite ;  Then to recal her home to your embraces .  She is your wife it seems then still : not I .  And you may consider  A little further yet Sir , if you please :  You Father and maintain a Son ( your own  I cannot safely say , and therefore more  Is my vexation ) who demeans himself  Not towards me , like one that were your wife .  It may prevent a greater strife hereafter ,  Should he but live t' inherit Lands and Titles  That must belong to yours and my succession .  Seal you that Grant : with this kiss I Seal mine :  My glories were eclips'd , but now they shine .  Where 's this King ? this King of Clouts ,  This shadow of a King , that stands set up  As in a Press among the Raggs and Vizors  That represent his deceas'd Ancestors .  Your love ? where is your love ?  Where is the preparation that you promis'd  Of strength to tear in pieces that vile Witch  That lives my souls vexation ? your love ?  You are a load of torment : your delays  To my desires are Hellish cruelties .  Are these your Promises ?  You could cut off an old man in a Prison ,  That could make no resistance , and you could  Vex a poor Boy to death , that could but cry  In his defence ; that you could do ; but this  That has so much shew of fear or hardness ,  As a few Peasants to maintain a Strumpet  Against your Dignitie , is too much to do  For a poor coward King .  O my torment !  No , no , you dare not do 't : your Army may  Perhaps i' th' dangerous Action break a shin ,  Or get a bloody nose : it now appears  My Father ( as 't was voyc'd ) was all your valour .  Y' have never a Mars or Cuckold-making General  Now left : and for your self , you 'r past it .  Did all your brave Commanders die in Sforza ?  Sirrah ! you have stirr'd more then his dust ; you have mov'd his blood in me , unto a Justice that claims , they trayterous head .  A King ? a Cobweb .  If thou beest King , thou yet art but that King  That ows me love and life , and so my subject .  Yes indeed Gonzago ,  Life by inheritance : for my valiant Father  Whose life thou tookst , gave thine , and so 't is mine .  And for your love , you dare not wrest it from me ;  Therefore deny not now my just demand ,  In that proud Traytors head .  Is 't not enough Alinda doth command it ?  Are these the Articles you gave me grant of ?  Is this the nothing that you would deny me ?  His Head is my offence : and give me that  Now , without pause , or by the strength of Hercules  I le take thee by the Horns , and writhe thine own off .  Was ever woman barr'd her will , as I am ?  Sure you have but mock'd me all this while :  I am no wife , no Queen , but silly Subject .  O , shall I so ?  Mark what I say to bind you to your word :  Do it , or I le not love you : I can change  Love into hate , hate into love most sweetly :  Let that man live to morrow , I le love him ,  And do fine feats with him , such as your tother wife  And Sforza did ; but make much better sport on 't .  They were an old dry couple .  I leave all to your Kingly consideration :  You know your charge : look to 't , and so I leave you .  If my fair meaning Sir shall prove mistaken ,  'T is but a loving purpose lost .  ( O that wretch Flavello ! )  Of wantonness I fear , and Luxurie .  ( The villain had no purpose but to flatter . )  O Sir , why came we hither ?  We have e'en seen enough : 't was all I fear'd ,  To find her knee-deep in Hypocrisie .  Your work you say , though 't be o' th' newest Frame ,  I fear your Play is still at the old Game .  Both wayes bring money : is 't not so forsooth ?  These wenches will be a good help to you at wassel-tide .  There 's for your Song ( ) No , stay , I may transgress  The Law .  Nay since you warrant it , let 's pay and go .  Though I have heard such pains disputed Begging .  What 's the Feat now ?  Sir , are you pleas'd to prosecute your journey ?  Or do these Beauties and delights enchant you ?  Not a stroke more I thank you : we have heard  And seen enough : so much , as I must tell you  I cannot but commend your Parents Wisdom ,  Who having Calculated your Nativitie ,  By which they had the foresight of your fall ,  Prevented thus the Planets by their care ,  By teaching you to live by Hand and Foot .  Sir , you forget Nicosia .  Plots against me ?  She dreams of Treason intended against me .  Cunning and Gipsie Tricks : will you to Nicosia ?  You Sir are careless : for if there be danger ,  VVhere can I fear it but in this place onely ?  The world holds not an Enemy of mine ,  But this enchantress you maintain against me .  I would fain love her , and certainly I should ,  But that she still begets fresh cause of Hatred .  She has some Devillish Plot in hand this Instant :  This shew is but the straw that hides the Pit .  Your Highness will excuse me , if I urge you  To bind it with an Oath ?  Well , pray let 's hear it .  Is this your love ? 't is fear of my just Vengeance .  Therefore hear my demands , my King and Husband .  First I demand the lives of these conspirators  Lodovico and Horatio .  Next that your Son , much of the Mothers Nature ,  By Act of Parliament be disinherited .  Last , that this woman have her eyes put out ,  And be for ever banish'd your Dominions .  Remember your Oath , my Lord .  Where have I been ? or how am I brought hither ?  Or where I am I know not : but that shall not .  Be unto me a wonder : for I know  Were it reveil'd , it could not be so strange :  A storie as my self was to the world .  How have I wandred in the way of Error !  Till I was worn into an Airie vapour .  Then wrap'd into a cloud : and thence distill'd ,  Into the earth to find a new creation .  'T is found : and I am found in better state ,  Then I was in , before I lost my Dutie .  For in this second Birth : I find a knowledge  How to preserve it : Therefore if an Heart  Dissolved in its Tears may move your Pity  My noble Father , ( if I may say Father , )  Whose blessing and forgiveness I entreat ,  Let not your frown destroy my future hopes .  My suit is next to you King , Queen , and Prince ,  Whose love , whose Pietie , whose Innocence ,  I have too much abus'd that to appeal ,  My trespasses at large by due confession .  I should appear but more impertinent to each eye and ear .  My suit is therefore ( though you not forget  I ever was ) you will be pleas'd to think ,  There is not an Alinda in the world .  So give me leave to leave it : and in this ,  I beg my Fathers Aid , to be remov'd  Back to my countrey Naples ; and in that ,  Into the Magdalene Nunnerie at Lucera ,  To spend this life in Tears for my amiss ,  And holy Prayers for eternal Bliss . 