 Not to disturbe your morning Meditations , my Lady has sent you —  A part of her Ladyships own breakfast , it is very cordiall and comfortable to the spirits , I assure you , and delectable to the younger sort , and profitable to the old .  'T is a composition of mine owne Sir , of many excellent decoctions , of most wholesome restorative , and costly ingredients .  O is it so , doe you finde that ?  What a wag 's this ?  Shee is a sweete Lady indeed , I can best speake  it that have knowne her from the wombe hitherto : A sweete infant shee was borne , and a sweete babe I swadled it , and a sweete child I nurs'd it , I traynd it up a sweete child . It was in manners a sweet child , at her Booke and Sample a sweet child . I never whipt it but once , and then it was sweete too , and sprawl'd but a little , and whimper'd but a little it was so sweet a child ; And so shee grew upwards , and upwards towards woman , and a sweet youngling shee was , and so grew upwards and upwards towards man , and then a sweete Bride shee was , and now a most sweet Lady shee is , ( as you say , and I commend you for it ) And so she stands at a stay . For now shee growes no more upwards then upon her Wedding day , not upwards as I would have her upwards , here I meane young Gentlemen , could I but see a sweet babe of hers once by my Master , I could be then content to sleep with my Ancestors .  I hope still , and shee hopes still ; and I make him of this broth for every morning , and many other good strengthning things ( I cannot say for the same purpose ) for I shall never see him have an heire by her .  Because you then are heire , say you so ? Is that your love to your Aunt ?  Then I cry mercy .  Helpe ! what d ee meane . He might have helpe  and helpes enough , were she not too vertuous .  Away wag away , your Aunt loves you too well to thinke so of her .  I should but serve you well to tell her your good thought of her .  Nay , nay .  Kinde young Master , now I am heartily sorry that I mov'd you .  Good Gentleman .  Nurse Closet .  O my Lady calls .  I should ha' told you first — I ha' forgot . My head is naught ,  My Lady desires you — This talke has put me out — O this head ! My Lady desires you —  Yes sir , shee desires you .  My Lady desires you .  O this head ! nay now you will not heare mee , shee desires you to goe abroad in the Coach with her .  What 's this you say ? I understand no word of it , I would take your answer right , though I falter'd in my Ladies message .  What must I tell my Lady Sir ?  Nor did I Madam but I could heare this Gentleman a whole day methinks . Hee speakes so acknowledgingly of your Ladiships vertue , and goodnesse towards him .  A sweete Gentleman , and bountifull , if my Lady had been blest with such a Husband , what a place had I had !  Madam — 