 Yes , sir , I am the Gentleman , and shee has told me so much , Sir that I must tell you , to tell your Master from mee , and as I would tell him my selfe if hee were here personally present , hee is a most dishonest Gentleman if he doe her not lawfull right by Marrying her ; and  that right I came to demand , and obtaine of him , or to denounce the Law against him .  Your great words cannot make mee feare his blowes ( I am not dasht nor basht ) nor crosse him out of my Booke , for feare of any such payment . I have him there for foure score pound as you know , though you are pleas'd to forget mee , But Sapientia mea mihi stultitia tua tibi .  Well wag well , you must not now put me off with my wife , shee 's well and much respected ; I come to speake of , and for my distressed Kinswoman , her whom your wicked Master has most wickedly dealt withall . Hee has deflower'd and deluc'd her , and led her from her Friends , and out of her Countrey into Fooles Paradice — By making her believe he would Marry her , and here he has put her on , and put her off , with hopes and delayes till shee is come to both woe and want ; And ( which may prove her most affliction , if hee be suffered to forsake her ) shee is with child by him .  Sir , that needs not to fall by the way of our discourse .  What an Asinego 's this ? I shall finde a time sir , to talke with your Master . In the meane time I tell you that my Kinsewoman is a Gentlewoman of as good blood as himself , and of the best in Herefordshire .  And shall find friends that shall not see her abus'd by you nor him . There is Law to be found for money , and money to be found for Friends , and Friends to be found in the Arches , and so tell your Master , come away Cosen .  Sirrah , like a saucy companion as you are , though you meddle with me that am a Common-councell-Man ; I charge you meddle not with my wife , you have had two or three jerks at her .  Then know your distance Sir .  And there I will direct you in your progresse .  Ally how dost ? Mr. Bellamy how i st ? How dos my noble Lord ? You are sad methinks . Ha' you overbought any thing here , and so repent your bargaine ? Or cannot my wife , and you agree upon 't ? you must use Mr. Bellamy  kindly my sweet Ally : hee is our noblest Lords most speciall favorite , and must finde all faire dealing here , as well when I am abroad as at home sweet heart .  What an Assinego 's this ! He might ha' thank'd mee for my good words , though I meant him no good will , I hope thou hast overreach'd him indeed .  Never the sooner for a hasty word , I hope sweete Ally ; Not of me nor of my shop I prethee at seasonable times Love . But for thy habit ( though this be decent on a Citizens wife ) use thine owne fancy , let it be as Courtly , or as Lady-like as thou pleasest , or my Lords desires .  Troth , and I 'le call thee friend , and I prethee , let that be our familiar and common compellation : friend it will sound daintily , especially when thou shalt appeare too gallant to be my Wife .  Then let it be so friend .  And all for ready money friend ?  Who would be , or who could live without such a friend , in such a shop ? This money comes so pat for a present occasion , to stop a gap . It has stopt a gap already friend .  Never the sooner for a hasty word I hope friend .  Uuch friend — Is it so ?  I were no friend but a wretch if I would . No let it goe friend , and — Sapientia mea mihi is my word , I must not grudge at my friend in any thing .  Whither sweet friend ?  I am corrected friend , but will you not take a Man to wait upon you ?  I am agen corrected friend ,  Doe your own pleasure , you 'l returne to supper .  And agen , I am corrected friend ?  Never the sooner for a hasty word I hope .  Sapientia mea mihi . A wity wife , with an imperious will ,  Being crost , findes meanes to crosse her Husband still ;  And Tradesmen that so match , must not with Gall  Temper their Wives , but sweetly by wit-all .  Expect your fortune modestly , and when it comes embrace it with discretion .  It is well if you be so ; I will put my undertaking in action presently , Pray for my good successe .  Was it your mans fault Mr. Carelesse ? if I be not reveng'd &c.   Well sir , since I have found the errour , my reason reconciles me to you , and since it grew out of your equall intent to cast off the evill , as to embrace the good , I will re-mediate for you to the widow .  In your Aunts presence , and your Unkles house ; Though I were not his friend ; could you be so outragious ? I muse I see him here though .  I make my selfe so , hee being dependent to my noblest Lord , whom I am bound to honour .  The Lord Lovely .  It goes so of him indeed , but he loves honor above all those .  Your servant Madam .  Five hundred pound for my Lord upon the mentioned security , I will break it to sir Oliver .  I am for your way Mr. Bellamy .  Craving your pardon Madam , a few words in the behalfe of this poore Kinsewoman of mine , touching a Gentleman , who I heare lives in your House , Mr. George Carelesse , Madam , by whom shee has received much injury .  Pray Madam read this Letter , weepe not , but hold up thy head Cuz , wee will not be dasht , nor basht in a good cause ; pray read you Madam .  Wherein appeares the injury to your Kinswoman ?  In flying from his Word , and Deed Madam . He has borne her in hand these two yeares , and use her at his pleasure , detaining her from her choyce of many good fortunes , and at last sends her this to make amends for all , and denies his act the next day , sending his man to take the Letter from her , pretending 't was directed to another . But never the sooner for a hasty word Cosen , we will not be dasht nor basht , I warrant thee .  Never the sooner for a hasty word Cosen .  Weepe not I say .  You have discretion Madam , and I made choice of your Ladiship to open this matter unto you , rather then to Sir Oliver himselfe , whom I would not willingly exasperate against his Nephew , you may be pleased in a milder way to temper him , and worke a satisfaction for my Kinsewoman ; Sir Oliver and your selfe Madam , are noble Customers to my Shop , and for your sakes I would not deale rigourously with your Kinseman , if a gentle end may be made . But , if you cannot so compound it , the Law lies open , money and friends are to be found , a good cause shall not be sterv'd , I will not be dasht not basht , Sapientia mea mihi is my word , and so good Madam you know my mind .  Mine I assure your Ladiship , though my wife can boast as great and noble friends I thank fortune , as the wife of any Tradesman that carries a head in the City , ( but that 's by the by ) yet I came of a better house , and am a Gentleman borne , none disprais'd .  With all my heart good Madam , and d ee heare Marina , This is a noble Lady , beare your selfe discreetly in the businesse , and towards her : you may get a Husband by 't , or at least a composition that may purchace one to sholder you up . But carry it high and worthy of the house I brag of , or — Sapientia mea mihi , stultitia tua tibi , That 's my sentence .  I shall be bound to your Ladiship , now to my Shop , to which I thanke my Wife shee has beene a Wild-cat these two dayes , which must be borne with as wee are friends . And from my House all Night , and yet no Greene-goose-faire-time ; Nor though shee were so absent must I be so unfriendly as to question her , where , or with whom shee was ; a new Article this twixt Man and Wife ! But Sapientia mea mihi , stultitia sua sibi . Thus it must be where Man and Wife are friends , and will continue so in spight of chance , or high heeld shooes , that will awry sometimes with any Women . Shee is not yet come home heere . What  Ladies that , and not my Wife there to handle her handsomely for her Money ? My servants are such Assinegoes ! stay , are mine eyes perfect ? 'T is shee , 't is my Friend-wife , and in the Courtly habit , which so long shee has long'd for . And my Lord Lovelies Gammed with her .  His Lordship lay not at home to Night , neither at his Lodging , I heard that by the way . I cannot thinke my Lord and shee both sate up all Night to see the Taylors at worke , and to hasten the finishing of those Cloaths , if shee were with him which I would not be so unfriendly to inquire for the worth of a Wife . 'T was right honorably done of him to send her home as gallantly attended as attir'd , if shee die — a — a — lie with him all Night , which I will not be such a beast to believe although I knew it . I must come on her with a little wit though , for which I will precogitate .  Would they had done whispering once , that I might enter safe in my manners .  Yes , I beseech you sir .  Hee is my most honored Lord , and has so many wayes obliged me both by my wife , and in mine owne particular that —  Still this is an Assinego . I can never get him to stand a Conference , or a Complement with mee . But Sapientia mea mihi , what was that friend you made mee send thanks for to his Lordship , what new favour has hee done us , besides his councell — These Clothes , the cost was mine you told mee , out of the odd hundred pound you tooke , what late Honour has hee done us ?  I cry you mercy friend , I am corrected justly .  Never the sooner for a hasty word , I hope Friend .  All this , and what you please sweete Courtly friend I grant as I love Court-ship , it becomes thee bravely .  And I am highly honor'd ; And shall grow fat by  the envy of my repining Neighbours , that cannot maintaine their Wives so like Court-Ladies , some perhaps ( not knowing wee are friends ) will say shee 's but Tom Salewares Wife , and shee comes by this Gallantry the Lord knowes how , or so . But Sapientia mea mihi , let the Assinegos prate while others shall admire thee , sitting in thy Shop more glorious , then the Maiden-head in the Mercers armes , and say there is the Nonparrell , the Paragon of the Citie , the Flower-de-luce of Cheapside , the Shop Court-ladie , or the Courtshop Mistris , ha' my sweet Courtlie friend ?  Sapientia mea mihi .  Never the lesse for a hasty word I hope Friend .  Under one ! yes , I could tell her under whom if I durst .  No Friend , I was guessing what that other thing might bee that you have done for mee , all under one . You have taken the House I 'le warrant , that my Lord lik'd so .  Must I then give up Shop , or lie so far remote ?  And not with you but there ?  But I shall have a Chamber in your house , and next to yours . Then in my Gowne and Slippers Friend at Midnight — or the first Cock . —  Here 's a new Courtlie humour , I see no remedy , unlesse I run my selfe out of credit , defie the life of a Cittizen , and turn Courtly too .  No , not a sillable Friend , but may not I give up Shop and turne Courtly too Friend ?  Well it shall be then as the sweete Lord will have it , Sapientia mea mihi .  Stay , let us retire . Here is the Lord Lovely .  The humblest of your Lordships servants .  It is the Nephew of the good Knight Sir Oliver Thrivewell , of which Sir Oliver , I have procured unto your Lordship the sum which you desired by your servant Mr. Bellamy .  Certes my Lord I am sorry .  He also comes a suiter .  Let we beseech your Lordship .  I thinke he shall in the end have the best my Lord , that can slight her most .  Doe your pleasure .  NAy but looke you Mr. Bellamy , it is not I protest that I am jealous , I make this inquiry for my wife . I jealous ? I an Asinego then , I am as confident of my wife , as that she is in this house , how ere you deny her to me .  Without equivocation , Mr. Bellamy , shee is not here — indeed , under your foot , but shee 's here in the house , and under some body for ought any body knows , but my selfe , that doe confide in her as I say , and will  know no such matter ; And so my Lords will be done with her , I hope I shall see her well to morrow , and at her own house .  What an Assinego 's this ! I say againe , I doe confide in her , nor will I be dasht , or basht at what any man sayes of , or against her ; And therefore me thinks t is very strange that you should deny her to me , that comes not to molest her .  Away , away , you mock ifaith , you are a wag shee 's no more here then I am , if shee were here can I thinke you would tell ?  I neither thought it , or dreamt it . I but sir , a waterman brought me a Letter in hast from one Mr. Anonimus , intimating that my Ally was with a private friend at this house , and to lie here all night ( a very likely matter ) what private friend has shee but my Lord , and that in a right honorable way , I confide in 'em both for that ; but at this house is such a thing my Lord having divers Lodgings , and shee a house of her own at his dispose and command , that is such a thing to be thought or dreamt on !  Why sir , this Anonimus writ that I should come hastily hither , and aske to speake with you Mr. Bellamy , and I should know further ; hither I came , here I finde you , you deny shee is here , and what doe I inquire any further ?  Goe you are a wag agen , shee here ? is my Lord here ? or any private friend ? alas , alas you are too young Mr. Bellamy , and may as well perswade mee I am jealous .  Then shee is here indeed belike .  This is some waggery plotted by my wife , I smell it .  Well , if this be not my wifes waggery in a maine proof of her chastity , I am not here . I will doe so sir .  Good .  Good agen , as if hee an Assinego had ever made love to her fine waggery !  Consent to my Lords man , a likely matter !  Dainty waggery this , what little mad Rogues are these to plot this to make me jealous ?  Very pretty .  I shall undoe my selfe then Friend . No , Sapientia mea mihi . Be not dasht nor basht for that good Friend , if there were any such matter : but this is waggery , fine waggery plotted betwixt you , to tempt my jealousie , but never the sooner for a hasty word I warrant you . Mr. Bellamy that my Wife is here I thank you ; But how I came to know it you shall never know from me ; you sent not for mee , I am sure you were not the Anonimus . Indeed it should have been Anonima Friend-wife : for it was thy act I dare sweare ; However you doe not heare mee say I was sent , or writ for at all , more then by a Dreame or Vision : But here I am and meane to remaine to night ; I hope the house can afford you another Bed in 't Mr. Bellamy , and you to leave mee to my owne Friend-wife , I like the lodging most curiously sweete Friend , and I prethee , le ts try heartily what luck  we may have in a strange place , I would so faine have a little one like thee .  Faces about Tom Saleware , and march forwards .  Are you still whispering ? no matter , let 'em whisper .  O hee 's gone — Ally , Friend I would say , And now I prithee tell mee how , or why thou cam'st hither .  Yes faith , I were no friend else .  In waggery ! did not I say so ! when doe my prophecies faile ?  A Letter from one Anonimus , but I 'le eate Spiders , and breake if you sent it not .  Where is it ? facks I ha' lost it .  Did not I say so too ? and that it should ha' been Anonima , Sapientia mea mihi , when doe my prophecies faile ? I 'le to bed instantly while the prophetick spirit is in mee , and get a small Prophet or a Southsayer .  Nere the lesse for a hasty word , I hope Friend .  I 'le lie upon thy feet then .  Sapientia mea mihi , stultitia tua tibi .  Puts in the bed ,  Let me intreat you heare her .  Sir , my councells have been prevalent with your judgement , let me perswade you .  Faces about Tom Saleware .  'T was thus my Lord an 't like your Lordship , my wife was forth at evening an t like your Lordship , as shee may have often beene an t like your Lordship , and may be as oft agen an t like your Lordship .  Forth shee was an t like your Lordship , I staid supper , and almost bed time for her an t like your Lordship ; And had even given her over for all night an t like your Lordship , as I may of any night an t like your Lordship .  Yes an t like your Lordship upon some private notice given to me an 't like your Lordship , that she was at a private lodging an t like your Lordship , with a private friend an t like your Lordship , over I went , and found her abed an t like your Lordship , and Mr. Bellamy even ready to go to bed to her an t like your Lordship .  As true as your Lordship lives an t like your Lordship .  Insooth an t like your Lordship I thought all had been but waggery an t like your Lordship , to tempt mee unto jealousy , and my wife knowing well enough that I was by , bade Sweet Bellamy come to Bed , O Wag !  A waterman my Lord , and like your Lordship , here 's the letter , and like your Lordship .  I thought I had Friend , but I found it now , and given it my Lord before I was aware Friend .  Now abotts on 't for mee , if thou beest angry Friend .  Nere the sooner for a hasty word I hope Friend .  And did not I tell you Friend , it should ha' been Anonima ? Sapientia mea mihi .  My Lord your servant Bellamy is receaving your money at Sir Anthony Thrivewells .  Nere the sooner for a hasty word I hope .  What ayles my Friend ? is not all this now but a plot to make me jealous ?  Nere the sooner for a hasty word I hope Friend . Come leave your waggery , is not all this but a plot now to make me jealous ?  Nor shall it hold good Madam , I cannot be jealous , Sapientia mea mihi .  Nor will I be jealous for a thousand Madam , your plot 's too weake Facks , but where 's my injur'd Kinswoman , Madam ?  Sapientia mea mihi , agen then for that , that was my plot , and it held Madam .  Hang feares and jealousies , I would there were no greater in the Kingdome , then in Tom Salewares Coxcombe ; But by your favour friend , we will be friends no more , but loving man and wife henceforward . 