 Four of the chief in the commotion ,  Upon the ingagement of my faith , that you  Had past your kingly word for their return  In safety , I have brought to Court , who wait  Your present will and pleasure .  Madam , the cause is mine ; t is mine to mourn  In chief , if they be dead . They were your sons ,  T is true , and though they were your onely comforts  Upon this earth , you but resigne to heaven  The blessings that it lent you . But to me  They were a pair of equal lovers ; and  By me so equally belov'd ; and by  The king my father so 'bove all men respected  That I by either had been made a Queen ,  Which title I for ever will disclaim  If they be dead .  The rumor , Madam ,  Carries so little shew of truth , that you  Do ill to take so deep a sense of it ;  Much worse t' expostulate , as if you had  An injury done you by the Gods . Have you  Been from mine infancy my governess ,  And careful councel-giver ; and must I  Find cause to chide you now ? come dry these tears .  O Garrula , welcome . I could never wish  Thy company more usefully : For thou bring'st  Some recreation on thy countenance alwayes .  But I pray thee  Let not that grief deprive us of the hearing  Of , at least , one of thy whole thousand joyes .  Thou dost speak well enough , and enough too ,  I pray thee tell it .  Good Garrula , thy newes ? thy present story ?  We shall ha 't  Anon I hope . Placilla , what 's your news ?  Now , Madam .  Thy tongue ran fast enough , but lost its way .  How is it with you , Madam ? Let not joy  Beget a worse effect then did your fears .  Help , Garrula .  I have observ'd that often in her language ,  This chattring Midwife glanceth at the knowledge  Of some strange hidden thing , which like as with  A Charm , she keeps my Governess in aw with .  I guess it but some trifle : For I know  The Lady is right vertuous ; yet it may  Be worth my inquisition at fit time .  You have not yet , Placilla , told the means  Of your rich knowledge .  O let us meet 'em . Madam , come away .  Pray let us hear it .  Cannot your Tutor Geron play the Hermes  T' interpret it ?  And now let me entreat that we may hear  The hidden sentence . Happily so many  May guesse at the intent .  Noble Philargus .  Noble Philocles .  Love , and ambition ( I have heard men say )  Admit no fellowship ; It holds not here .  These will have neither wife nor crown alone .  They each desire my love ; but neither can  Enjoy 't unless he were the other man .  My love is doubly tane , yet must gain neither ,  Unless I could enjoy them both together . O , ye Gods !  Why made ye them two persons , and assign'd  To both but one inseparable mind ?  Or , why was I mark'd out to be that one ,  That loves and must embrace , or two , or none ;  O my perplexity .  Stratocles —  May thy ambition hoist thee into air ;  And thy loose wings , like thy licentious paper ,  There failing thee , let fall thy vicious body  To earth , as here thy name lies to be trod on .  Philargus , you are welcome .  Nay , my dear Philargus ,  I thought me nearer to you , then that you  Should rove at me with Courtship . Stratocles  ( The emblem of whose pride lies there in paper )  Shot from afar indeed ; yet , like a Jove  ( A self-conceited one ) presum'd to strike  Love by command into me by his Letters .  No more of him .  You have it freely .  It is too true .  Not so low .  That he may be your King ?  Be all example lost .  O my Philargus , you have open'd now  The meaning of the Oracle . I have the sence  Most perfectly . You have beyond example  Preserv'd your friendship with your brother ; and  In wooing for him have won me to your self .  I am your own .  In that your constancy you win me more .  Let me request the cause of your disturbance ,  Good Philocles .  Let me come to him :  What 's that to the redress ?  His grief 's a jealous passion  Upon my suppos'd favour to Philargus .  Shake it off Philocles , I am thine , as much  As ere I was , or his .  You will not take him from me . Stay Philargus .  True , I may not .  What sayes Philocles ?  What means my Philocles ?  O —  Philocles you have made a double conquest  For you have got the victory of me  Which was before assign'd unto Philargus .  Your fortune thus embraces you  He cannot disallow 't . He woo'd me for you ,  And won me to himself , as you have now  Suing for him .  Yet still the choice is mine . I may take you  Without offence to him . But now he comes ,  And has again an equal interest ,  Strange love ! In others absence I took either  And lov'd each best ; Now both at once appear ,  Neither is mine . Fate , let me die to one  Rather then live in this confusion .  Confound me not with question . They are each  Wedded to others friendship : Either is  More studious for the other then himself .  So will I  For both of you then for my self .  Then let 's continue thus with Maiden love ,  With modest freedom , unsuspected joyes ,  As we had all been formed in one womb ,  Till Heaven determine of us .  Nay , death first .  Here 's a mystery too ,  As dark as that from Delphos . He approves  My choice of Philocles , slighting not Philargus .  Yet five dayes for love's war . Jove grant I have  By then , to end the strife , a peaceful grave .  Good Madam , let me be excus'd . The mirth  You offer'd to allay or quench my sorrows  Might have been well receiv'd at former times :  But now it is unseasonable .  Good , speak no more on 't .  Still you move like those  That do in merry tales mis-spend their breath  To those that are that day mark'd out for death .  That were to fancy in our selves an Oracle ;  Or to give fortune power , to execute  The judgement of the Delphian God .  This pleases better yet then Gerons wooing .  Praythee Placilla sing . And may thy voice  Attract him that may prove the happier choice .  Thanks kind Placilla . — But the leaden weights  Of sleep oppress mine eye-lids , and I shall not hear thee .  Stay Philocles , stay Philargus . Let not fury  Lead you to end that difference with your swords ,  Which onely fits my life to satisfie .  Pursu 'em , with prevention ,  Before they meet again , or one or both  Must perish ; did you not observe their challenge ,  And eithers daring other to the field ?  Now ; here ; your sons .  How can you ask ?  It was an omenous dream then .  My affrightment shakes me still —  O my Philargus , I am now inspir'd  Sure by a vision from the Gods , with knowledge ,  That , in my choice of you , or Philocles ,  I shall become the ruin of you both .  T is better in my self to kill the danger .  T is that  Deters me : yet let me prevail Philargus  ( To quit me of my fears ) that ere I passe  My faith unto a husband , your and Philocles ,  Before the Gods , your Mother , and my self ,  Once more , do celebrate your vow of Friendship .  And let me be excus'd in this : for I  Must tell you , dear Philargus , that tho' now  My love be fixt on one of you ( albeit  I name not which ) I will not take him with  Least scruple of a fear of losing him  Again by th' others spight ; nor leave that other  Lesse lov'd by me , then now he is , for ever ;  And tho but one can be possess'd of me  One friendship , yet , must marry us all three .  Come Madam ;  Now if you please wee 'l take some ayr .  Craves leave to seek his brother .  Help ye Gods .  No they are both sublim'd into one star ,  Yet of a double influence , that shall  Strike death into thy purposes , and give  Me light by which t' ascend with them to live  After my present death .  I am in heaven already .  What a short journey 't is  For heavenly minds to reach unto the Gods !  For me , I have learn'd  By mine own sufferings in my afflictions  To be compassionate . I wish their pardon .  Lord Stratocles ,  Those wounds that pierce the heart with true contrition  Do bring the precious balm in 'em that cures it .  I 'le acquaint my father with your care ,  He shall be witness of our bringing in  The ambitious Politick trapt in his own gin .  O my dread father . Yet one hours patience  Till Eupathus or Disanius return .  One short , short hour : I may not live so long .  His wife you nam'd ; though you may force me take him .  They will forgive . Give them your imitation  In mercy , as in power on earth . I know Disanius  Went not in vain to call 'em to your presence .  And him that he brings first into this room  O Philocles or Philargus I will take ,  Though he precede the other but one foot ,  I have it by inspiration from the Gods .  ( O mighty , Sir —  The Gods have wrought  Effectually for me .  And I of sodain joy .  How means your majesty ?  I should not live then ;  Philargus then  Is brought in dead before him by Disanius ;  And unto him the first to be brought in  My faith was vow'd ; and he is now my choice .  I ha' done ;  And as the Gods direct him to command me ,  I must and will obey .  His merits are above  Me and this land ; In which what interest  My birth hath given me I resign to him .  Onely let me beseech a further respite .  Voyces that do tell me , I must follow him  Up to the heavens , and there be married to him . 