 Now may your servant obtaine a hearing Lady .  But you are sad or angry , why seemes that brow to threaten a subjection over him that is your vanquish'd captive ; or has Cupid plac'd his Bow there bent at me , whose heart already lodges all his Arrowes , never to be restor'd but by your pity ?  What has displeas'd you ?  Husbands should be so serv'd that do impose Those mercenary Offices on their wives .  Servile , nay slavish Offices , ranking their wives with their prentises .  For no great matter I hope .  My Lord has still the same regard of you .  I doubt not but this paper will cleare that jealousie . And while you reade I 'le speake that which I dare not utter through , Sighes and Blushes to an intire attention .  I am of Noble-blood my selfe , free-borne ,  And not without good education ;  But since I am ingag'd in this imployment ,  And made an instrument of others lust ,  I finde my selfe a scandall to my Name ,  To Honour , and to Vertue , the base blot  Of Pandare sticking on me . But not this  Alone is my affliction . Here 's my torment ,  That while I doe true service to my Lord  ( Whom I must ever honour ) in my Agency  Unto your selfe ( whom I cannot but love )  I finde my selfe a Traytor to his trust ,  In my negotiation for my selfe .  Nor can I finde it possible to desist ,  Mine own attempts , to you , or forbeare to urge  Your constancy to him .  How wretched is that suppliant , who must make  Sute to obtaine that , which he feares to take !  Now I could wish , and was in hope you had not .  You have school'd mee fairely , I am humbled , Lady —  And that 's a heavenly one ,  As that of Cynthia at Endymion .  I shall forget I have a Lord . I must forget him here .  I would intreat you —  That you would be pleas'd —  To weare this paire of Silke stockins for me .  Yes , I say you are the beautifull'st of Women ; and that my Lord in your enjoyment is the happiest —  I would but dare not hope for such a favour , you 'l never grant it , my unworthinesse .  You will not wrong my Lord , so as to doe it .  It is —  It is — That you would , let me — give you this ring ,  And grace it with your Finger .  Yes , to weare any favours , but his own .  No , nor I would not that he should ( and given by me ) for all the Rubies in Cheapside , where I bought this but now , over the way .  And now you will betray me : I am sham'd then and undone .  O deare , did I say so now ?  But , in good earnest , shall I ? shall I ?  Any condition Lady .  Name your condition , I 'le performe it if it be in the power of my life .  I tooke no notice of her .  Sir Oliver Thrivewells Lady ?  Seene her before shee was married .  I did observe it .  What d ee meane Lady ?  You urge this but to try my constancy .  You heare not mee complaine sir , fare you well .  And I your Lordships good Madam . And yours Mr. Saveall .  Can a Woman take so much delight in hearing of another Womans pleasure taken ?  Then know I pleas'd her so , that shee protested , ( and I believe her ) her Husband never pleas'd her so .  How know you that ?  Nay shee swore deeply , and I believ'd her there too , no man besides her husband but my selfe had e're injoy'd her , but let me tell you Lady , as shee was amply pleas'd she may thanke you .  That was the first respect , but not the greatest :  For in our Act of love , our first and second Act —  In reall deed , I can speak now like an embolden'd Lover .  I had you still in my imagination , and that enabled mee to be more gratefull to her Ladyship , which wrought her thankfulnesse to you , exprest in a hundred pieces , sent by me , more then I tould before , which are your own shee sayes , since tother morning shee was here with you .  Safe at my Chamber for you .  I 'le rather run and fetch you twice the summe , I conceal'd it onely to give it you unexpectedly .  To morrow night .  O with all fulnesse both of Delight and Appetite .  And can you thinke I dare be found your meane , to break 'em .  I am your willing Messenger .  I take my leave .  My Lord .  My love my Lord ?  My suit my Lord to her ? I never mov'd your Lordship to 't , Tho' I presume she may be a happy fortune to one of my condition ; a poore and younger brother ; onely made rich and happy in your Lordships service , and over-flowing favours .  You heard my Lord say I should not .  Lady I finde so much your scorn already ,  That to be wedded to 't , I should dispaire  ( My much unworthinesse consider'd ) to convert it  Ever to love , and 't is your love , before  Your Person or Estate , that my affection  Ought to direct mee to .  In answer therefore , to your will , you have mee ,  I must say no , till I perceive some signe  Of love in you towards me .  No ; I would seeke it zealously , but my Lord  Is off on 't now , and I may lose his favour .  Not limited : but ( as it is as yet ,  But in its infancy ) a little checkt ,  Though it still growes , and may extend beyond  All limitation to so faire an object  As is your selfe : But still my own demerit  Curbs my ambition more then love emboldens .  This to mee Lady ? I 'le take you at your word .  Your Widow sir ! I thought shee had beene the Widow of one deceas'd .  Forbeare sir , I have a Handkercher .  I heare your charge sir , but you must leave it to my discretion to obey it , or not .  All faire and friendly my Lord .  Why Lady , you are not jealous now ? If you were not , you would believe me she is not here .  Can such language proceed out of any but a jealous mouth ?  There you are againe . But since no denyall will serve your turne , indeed shee is here in this house , and in bed by this time .  How came you to thinke , or dreame shee was in this house at all ?  Why came you to inquire then of such a thing ?  You heare mee say agen shee is here .  Well sir , to put you out of all jealousie and doubt ( if you be in any ) I was the Anonimus that sent you the Letter to draw you hither and declare my selfe your friend , which shall instantly be manifest to you , if now you have a minde to lie with your own wife before any other man .  Pray come with me into the next Chamber .  But you must be sure to say when shee discovers you , that you came of your owne accord , unsent for , as inspir'd or possest by some Dreame or Vision , to finde her here .  So then , obscure your selfe a while , while I approach her .  'T is I , your servant Lady .  Deare Lady thinke not so , but that I am struck into stone with wonder , and amazement at the most unexpected accident that ever crost a Lover .  I will not be so crost , but kill him rather . To injoy such a Mistris , who would not kill a horn'd beast ? yet blood is such a horror —  Speak lower gentle Lady .  I know not by what Magick your jealous husband has made discovery of our being here , he wrought sure with the Devill !  I 'le leave you to your wishes , a good night to you .  'T is true I have it for you .  I rather should suspect your craft in this prevention : but love forbids me , and I must conclude , 't is witchcraft in your husband .  May all that 's Man in me forsake me else .  Good night .  Lost to my selfe , and friends being made unfit  In any other Region to appeare ,  And more unable to live other where ;  Then in the presence of my loved Lord  ( Although not as my selfe ) I did assume  That Masculine boldnesse , so to let you know  My Lord , that I more fully could subsist  By the meere sight of you , and so containe  My selfe , then she your more respected Mistris  Could in the rich and plentifull enjoyments  Of your most reall , and essentiall favours . 