 I Marry Sir ! This is something like ! These appear like Buildings ! Here 's Architecture exprest indeed ! It is a most sightly scituation , and fit for Gentry and Nobility .  It will be glorious : and yond magnificent Peece , the Piazzo , will excel that at Venice , by hearsay , ( I ne're travell'd ) . A hearty blessing on their braines , honours , and wealths , that are Projectors , Furtherers , and Performers of such great works . And now I come to you Mr. Rookesbill : I like your Rowe of houses most incomparably . Your money never  shone so on your Counting-boards , as in those Structures .  It will all come again with large encrease .  And better is your money thus let out on red and white , then upon black and white , I say . You cannot think how I am taken with that Rowe ! How even and straight they are ! And so are all indeed . The Surveyor ( what e're he was ) has manifested himself the Master of his great Art . How he has wedded strength to beauty ; state to uniformity ; commodiousnesse with perspicuity ! All , all as 't should be !  Phew ; that will follow . What new Plantation was ever peopled with the better sort at first ; nay , commonly , the lewdest blades , and naughtypacks are either necessitated to 'hem , or else do prove the most forward venturers . Is not lime and hair the first in all your foundations ? do we not soile or dung our lands , before we sowe or plant any thing that 's good in 'hem ? And do not weeds creep up first in all Gardens ? and why not then in this ? which never was a Garden until now ; and which will be the Garden of Gardens , I foresee 't . And for the weeds in it , let me alone for the weeding of them out . And so as my Reverend Ancestor Justice Adam Overdoe , was wont to say , In Heavens name and the Kings , and for the good of the Common-wealth I will go about it .  I have thought upon a way for 't , Mr. Rooksbill : and I will pursue it , viz. to finde out all the enormities , yet be my selfe unspied : whereby I will tread out the spark of impiety , whilest it is yet a spark and not a flame ; and break the egge of a mischief , whilest it is yet an egge and not a Cockatrice . Then doubt not of worthy tenants for your houses Mr. Rooksbill .  I had a letter bur last night from a worthy friend , a West-countrey Gentleman , that is , now coming up with his family to live in Town here ; and desire is to inhabit in these buildings . He was to lie at Hammersmith last night , and requested an early meeting of me this morning here , to assist him in the taking of a house . It is my businesse hither ; for he could never do 't himselfe . He has the oldest touchy , wrangling humour . — But in a harmlesse way ; for he hurts no body , and pleases himself in it . His children have all the trouble of it , that do anger him in obeying him sometimes . You will know him anon . I mean , he shall be your Tenant . And luckily he comes .  My noble friend Mr. Croswill , right happily met .  No trouble at all , Sir , though I have prevented  yours in finding a fit house for you .  Actum est Mr. Croswill . But Civility pardon me , Is not this your daughter ?  Sweet Mrs. Katherine , Welcome — Mr. Gabriel , I take it .  But where 's your younger sonne Mihill ? There 's a spark !  In town , and I not know it ?  Have you not heard from him lately ?  Was that resolution borne in him think you .  Think nothing of his words , he 'll forget all instantly . The best natur'd man living .  Well said , Mr. Gabriel .  Never since he forsook me , on the discontent he took , in that he might not marry your daughter there . And where he lives , or whether he lives or not , I know not . I hope your davghter is a comfort to you .  I wish , with teares , my sonne had had her now .  Still the old humour , self-vvill'd , crosse , and touchie ; but suddainly reconcil'd . Come , Mr. Croswil , to the businesse .  Yes Sir . And here 's the Landlord .  Sir , vve have able Builders here , that vvill not carry least shevv of their buildings on their backs . This is a rich sufficient man , I assure you , and my friend .  Come avvay Mr. Gabriel .  O heresie ! It is some Lady , or Gentlewoman standing upon her Bellconey .  What a Knave 's this : That 's the Bellconey she stands on , that which jets out so on the forepart of the house ; every house here has one of 'hem .  I guess what she is , what ere I have said . O Justice look to thine office .  I 'le see you hous'd ; and then about my project , which is for weeding of this hopeful Garden .  Ex. omnes .   Look upon me ye Common-wealths men now , like a State-Surgeon , while I search and try  The ulcerous coare of foule enormitie .  These are a parcel of those venomous weeds ,  That ranklie pester this faire Garden-plot .  Whose boisterous growth is such , that I must use  More policie then strength to reach their root ,  And hoist them up at once .  This is my way to get within 'em .  I am one that has the favour of the house , sir ?  To seek a poor living and 't please you , by picking up the crums of your liberalitie , for the use of my rare qualities .  It is to speak or sing ex tempore upon any Theame , that your fancie or the present occasion shall administer .  O my weak eye-sight .  O good Gentlemen , forbear , I beseech you .  I will not yet desist ; but suffer private affliction with a Romane resolution for the publike welfare , with full assurance that my fortitude shall at last get within 'em .  Enough , enough , good Gentlemen , you have beaten me enough of conscience . Was ever good Patriot so rudely handled ? but the end crowns all .  I have been , Sir , a man , and of my hands , howe're misfortune humbles me under your manhoods . But I have seen the face of warre , and serv'd in the Low-countreys , though I say 't , on both sides .  They had a dish e'ne now , sir .  Give me a Theam Gentlemen .  No , sir , but think of a tune .  No sir , not I , I work not their way . What I do is ex tempore after the Theme given .  But they run quite before you . Their Works are in print sometimes . and ready to be sung about streets , of men that are hang'd before they come to the Gallowes .  40. sh. for foure mens dinners , note that , yet he sayes 't is reasonable .  Bloomsbury ? good , I note it .  There is more hope of that young man , then of all the rest , indeed it is a sore abuse , another verie weed in the city . I do note that also .  Any sir , any , an 't be till midnight .  Agreed Gentlemen , give me your Theme .  Well Sir , your Theme .  You 'll help me with the burthen , Gentlemen .  Where be the Gentlemen ?  I feare I shall be discovered , sir , I can give your worship credit for a peece till you come to your lodging .  I am glad my feare is over . And after all my sufferings , if at last  Cock braine crow not these roaring Lions down ,  Let him be balladed about the Town .  O out-rage , most insufferable , all this goes into my black book .  That young man has some pity yet .  Alas , good Gentlemen , it is enough .  O good Gentlemen .  O me ! what mean you ?  What monsters in mankinde ? what hell-hounds are they ? only as Ovid feign'd among the Getes . A friend at need , I with a friend was blest , Whom I may gratifie , and plague the rest . How is it with you , Sir ?  Indeed you are sorely handled . This may warne you out of such caterwaling company . You look like one more civil . And in hope you will be so , I 'le bring you to a Barber .  I 'le help you to that too , so you with me , Will in an honest plot Assistant be .  Lay hands on all . First , on that old Ruffian , the Incendiarie , that sets the youthful bloods on fire here with his Infernal discipline . Next , take his sons , there 's one , that young Blade there , Have I now got within ye , Gentlemen ? will you have Songs ex tempore ? know ye me now ? a ha ! I 'le be call'd the  Weeder of this Garden . Take up those She weeds there . I have the rank one here . I took her stragling in my Round e'ne now .  Peace Circes , cease thy charmes . What cluster have we here now . O here 's another of the sons of noise .  What Mr. Rooksbil , are you here ? what woman 's this ?  What Mr. Croswill , you among this Ginge too ?  How will you 'scape commitment ?  Who 's here ? your daughters too ? but what are these ?  O here 's the man I sought , whom , I confess , I am half sorry to commit with the rest , because I found him civiller .  What ? my son Antonie ?  O sir , most happily .  Joy and my blessing on you . Why I knovv not vvhom to commit novv . 