 Sweet Doris ! thus , by me Lord Philocles  Salutes the Princess .  How fares her highness ?  I 'le hast to tell him so   At more leasure  I 'le tell thee wonders , Doris .  Ha' you seen your lover Geron , the old tutor ,  Since our arival ?  Well : he has been the whole mirth of our journey  In the discovery of his love to you .  His meat , his drink , his talk , his sleep , has all  Been Doris , Doris , nothing but your remembrance  Has been the trouble of his company ;  I le tell thee at large hereafter . The fair Princess  Is well you say .  They would say the Handmaid had been handled so .  Would they ?  You have detain'd me to my undoing .  See , my Lord !  My good Lord , the princess  Is well again ; restor'd to absolute health .  We should love one another , brother Tersulus ,  More inwardly , and be in friendship true  As our Lords are . Prithee let their example  Piece up all difference betwixt us .  Fie on thy jealousie . 'Cause thou art a Taylor ,  How ere a Gentleman by place , thou think'st  I jear thy quality .  Nay if you go to rip up old Antiquity .  You may as well  Collect , that the first man ( who you suggest  Was his own Taylor ) was his own Barber first .  Do you think he did not scratch his head  In casting how to fashion out his breeches ?  And that 's in part , you know , the Barbers office .  And still  In use 'mongst Taylors on themselves . But note  The foul corruptions brought in by Time ;  Of old they did but rub invention up ,  How to contrive their work : But now their heads  Wrists , fingers , all have got an itch by 't , which  Nothing but stealing can allay ; though that  Can never cure it .  Sharp .  Agree good brother , or would we had Doris  To stickle twixt us .  There y' are afore me too .  But come , Lords followers are their Apes in most things ,  Why should not we be as friendly Rivals , now  In Doris Love , as are our Lords in the  Princess Eudinas . We will take up a fashion .  I know not Doris .  I know not Doris .  Why him ?  Mine even now . I came but since to call  My brother Tersulus .  It is with us as t is with them : we both  Are brothers , friends ; yet Rivals in your love .  Can you now , as the Princess is to them ,  Be equally affected to us both ?  Nay , dear Doris .  We love our Lords ? and as you love the Princess ,  Who loves them , love you us . You are Eudina ,  I Philocles , and he Philargus is .  The King commands you to make present choice  Of one of us , or else ambitious Stratocles  ( That 's Geron ) must enjoy you . Now sweet Princess  Be speedy in your choice . The kingdoms good  Depends upon it . And in your Election ,  O make Philargus blest : He best deserves you .  See Stratocles , alias Geron .  Must she be  Your pupil learned Geron .  Take heed Doris  How you become his wife : For he will love you  So by the book , as he will never lie with you  Without an Authour for 't .  She speaks in his Element .  A very Stratocles .  Hee 'l to his Mother now . But tell me , Doris ,  What means that Beldame in she knows , she knows :  She 's often up with 't to the Governesse .  T is some smock-secret I believe . But Gentlemen ,  You know how I have laid my self out to you .  And to that you 'l hold ?  She has given us both a hint now , would we take it .  But she has laid a ground  To end a strife , that I should nere ha' found .  I must think on 't .  All 's ready , Sir .  And now 's my time to act thy purpose , Doris .  Now the service that may redeem my faults  Is to be done .  I 'le give you more then you expect by this .  They are done  Already if my Pothecaries skill fail not .  He has said well for me already ,  I 'le not stir my Lord .  You heard him say  It was himself that did it . I am clear'd .  It was my act . But may your mercy look  Upon my love in it unto my Lord .  Of her I had the poyson , t is confest . 