 O my good Lord without boast be it spoken , I have ever beene right and straight to your honour , and never did you an ill office in Man , Woman , or Child , what I have said of 'em they have proved at first , or I have wrought 'em to at last . But what doe I speake on 't , I  have ever beene for your Lordship , all things I have sworne for you , I have fought for you , I have brok'd for you ; I have pimpt for you , but what doe I speake on 't ?  Oh the Gentlemens Wives , and Farmers Daughters that I have presented to you in your Summer Progresses , and winter Journeys about the Countries . But what doe I speake on 't —  And here i' the City , I have pledg'd more of your severall Mistresses , then in my conscience there be honest Women in 't . But what doe I speake on 't ?  Or if you had , what doe I speake on 't ? and in my conscience agen , I have drunke more to your Lordships health in my dayes , then any Wine-cellar in the City at this day , containes of Spanish French , and Rhenish ; but what doe I speake of that either ?  Yes , my good Lord , and I pray your Lordship tell mee , dos not my Nephew drinke and wench pretty handsomely ? I would faine have him take after me , and not his drunken father .  Dos he not begin to fall to yet ?  Not a bit nor a soope ? dos hee doe nothing by example ? or has your Lordship left it ? or dos he carry it like a Gentleman ?  Pretty commendation for a young Courtier .  Just such a bashfull puppy was my brother , his Father ; I wonder how my Mother came by him ; My Father was right , and she was right , and I have beene right , but what doe I speake on 't ?  The Boy will nere grow up to me , I thought to have left him somewhat , I must discard him .  What can your Lordship love him for ?  That 's something indeed .  Benefit ! A defect I feare , yet I may hope in time some Mistris of your Lordships may tempt , and bring him forwards .  Some Mistris is comming to him , but what doe I speake on 't ?  Will you pardon me my Lord ?  I have my Lord , and am overjoyd to heare so well of my Nephew .  I may heare more anon , your Lordship tho' knowes not of what so well as I doe know .  I marry dos shee Madam to make her word good to my Lord that he would have lien with her too ; And sayes that Bellamy affirm'd to her that he did , I mary did he with your Ladiship .  I 'le end your difference Cosen Fitzgerrard , here is your Sister Amie my Lord , here is your servant Bellamy , whom I preferr'd to you as my Nephew , to be a Go-betwixt you and Mistresses , which quality I now abhorre , as I could wish your Lordship would leave — Wenching for this inconstant Womans sake that would be prostitute unto your servant . 'T was a flat bargaine , and but a flat one , but for the non-performance her husband may thanke their party of Sex , not his wifes want of desire .  What further end shee had to serve your Lordship she may relate her selfe .  This new Lady sir , is that Bellamy you inquire for . 