 'T is excellent Madam . And I was ambitious  To bring you the first taste of it . But if  Garrula has in that prevented me ,  I can with no lesse joy relate it yet .  My brothers are return'd , and safe , from Delphos .  Mother , t is true .  Three minutes , Madam , brings 'em to your presence .  Nor shall I need now Madam  These shouts of joy that follow'd them to Court  Attend them to your presence .  Doris , you must be vigilant in attendance ,  And see that no man pass this lobby , towards  Her graces lodging . T is your charge : look to 't .  Pardon me , I had ;  But my care hurts not . One thing more good Doris .  If my dear brother Philocles come to visit ,  Prithe call me . Speak , wilt thou .  I trust unto thee Doris .  In any thing  Wherein I may be useful , best of brothers .  Why , brother Philocles —  Did I say brother ? How my tongue conspires  To torture me ! If Brother be a naked  Title or name ( as he suggests ) I would  It had nor being , name , nor title . Philocles  Y' are passionate .  If I were she you should not need an advocate .  Your wages  Corrupts your agent to be false . O whither ;  Into what Sands will the rash Pilot , Love ?  Drive this weak vessel ? did I call it Love ?  T is sooty , hellish fire ; unlawful flame :  Yet such as we may easier tax , then tame .  O help , my brother ; speak , dear Philocles .  How do you now ? What a cold moisture  Spreads ore his temples here .  Madam , be your self .  Was it for that you now sent for Philargus .  I le try my best in notes , and what they want  I le strive to make effectual in my wishes .  Collect your spirits Madam : you slept .  I will my brother .  I am discover'd in my lawlesse love .  Remember , Cupid , whom thou makest thy Anvil ;  A poor weak virgin . If thou art a God ,  Be just and reasonable : It savours not  Of justice , to provoke incestuous flames ,  Nor Reason to enforce an Ardency  Of things impossible . Let me not burn  With neighbouring fire , which , to enjoy , I must  Therefore dispair because it is so near .  Yes , brother .  How do you brother ?  He suspects too , with much displeasure , my  Unreasonable Love to Philocles .  But why should we be Reasons followers  With loss of liberty ? which of the Creatures  Allayes his heat toward any of his kind ,  'Cause the same belly gave them being ? They  Observe no difference of Sire , or Dam ,  Brother , or Sister , being mature for love .  Ah , whither am I going ? Bestial thoughts  Forth of my bosom ; Leave me not my Soul ,  Or my soules better part , my reason . Oh  It was returning but a flaming shaft  Of love has set it's Mansion afire  And frights it back again .  That name of Sister , like a violent cold  Upon an extream heat , feavers my blood  To death .  How shall I answer him ? I dare not look on .  Out of conformity  Unto the present garb : I have assum'd  Onely a veil of sadness .  He' has given me now a Colour for my sadness .  The Princess is retir'd ; She has been troubled  With a most fearful dream of a Duello  Betwixt you and Philargus to be fought .  Nay , with swords she said .  Philargus hath been with her , and to him  She told her fears , enjoyning him , that both  Of you should come , and jointly before her  Declare your constant friendship .  But trust me Sir , I fear Philargus took not  All as she meant it ; for at his departing ,  He look'd displeasedly ; and , when I demanded  His healths condition , he said he was sick  In Philocles .  Pardon my fear ; which is , that hee 's not friends w' ye .  No .  It is my love , in that black horror clad ,  Which will , before it leaves me , make me mad .  In the behalf , Sir , of your loyal subjects ,  The Swains of Tempe .  Pray all be well .  The King has struck his breast , and seems perplext . 