 Wherein Sir , ( under correction do I disobey you ?  Yet give me leave , dear Sir , in my excuse . —  If I were forward as many Maidens are ,  To wish a husband , must I not be sought ?  I never was a Gadder : and my Mother ,  Before she dy'd , adjur'd me to be none .  I hope you 'll give me leave to keep your house .  Perhaps , I might unfortunately cast my affection on a man that vvould refuse me .  And is your brother that your father sayes is so ungracious , so well acquainted with my brother Mihil , say you .  I would not that my father knew it , for all I can expect from him but his blessing , but does your father know it ?  If I do , may the due price of treachery be my reward .  But let me ask you , is there an hope betwixt you and my brother ever to come together ?  Trust me , I pity you both , your case is very dangerous .  I like her spirit well .  Indeed , I am glad that my father yielded to your fathers friendly request in it ; and the more , in regard he is so hard to be entreated to any thing ; but especially for your societies sake , sweet Sister . Indeed I 'le call you Sister alwayes , and I hope you shall be shortly in my brother Mihils right .  Why you would not have him too , Sister , would you ?  He was put to 't to day . The noise of the Tavern had almost wrought his zeale into fury , it is scarce out of my head yet .  I 'le tell you now , and in that something worth your observation .  My father has an humour , not to like any thing at first , nor accept best courtesies of friends ,  though presently he findes 'em most commodious to him ; things that he knows not how to be without , and oftentimes desires with the same breath the things he vilified , and scorn'd them the last syllable he spake before . You saw when your father offered him the use of his house here , till his own be furnished , he cried , hah ha ! are all the houses in the Town yours Sir ; and yet presently entreated for 't , and thanked him .  But that is seldome attended by the best fortune . Nay , in us , I mean , his children , he will like nothing , no , not those actions which he himself cannot deny are vertuous ; he will crosse us in all we do , as if there were no other way to shew his power over our obedience .  Now , note the punishment that followes it . There 's not a childe he has , though we all know what we do , that make any conscience of crossing him , we have so much of his good nature in us .  I must confesse it is a stubbornnesse .  Yet for the most part we do nothing , but that which most Parents would allow in their children : and now for my brother Gabriel , with whom I must bring in the story of another Kinswoman of ours , my father had at home with us .  Nay , mark , I pray you , as I would entreat an Auditorie , if I now were a Poet to mark the Plot , and several points of my play , that they might not say when 't is done , they understood not this or that , or how such a part came in or went out , because they did not observe the passages .  My brother Gabriel , when he was a boy , nay ,  till within these two yeares , vvas the wildest untamed thing that the countrey could possibly hold .  I mean in outvvard conversation , he vvas the Ring-leader of all the youthful Frie , to Faires , to Wakes , to May-games , footbal-matches , any thing that had but noise and tumult in it ; then he was Captain of the young train-band , and exercised the youth of tvventy parishes in martial discipline . O he did love to imitate a souldier the best , — and so in every thing , that there vvas not an handsom maid in an whole County could be quiet for him .  Yet did he bear the civillest aud the best ordered affection to our Kinsvvoman I spake of .  So loving to her person , so tender of her honour that nothing but too near affinity of blood could have kept them asunder .  O dearly , vertuously vvell ; but my father fearing vvhat youth in heat of blood might do , removes my brother Gabriel from home into the service of a Reverend Bishop to follovv good examples .  You shall hear , Sister , soon after came a Gallant into the countrey from London here , and as vve after found , a Citizens sonne , though he shevved like a Lord there . Briefly , he grevv acquainted vvith my brother Mihil . Then vvoo'd and vvonne my  Cousin so secretly , my father never suspected , nor he nor I e're knevv vvhose son he vvas , nor of vvhat occupation my old lord his father vvas ; but he promis'd her marriage , clap't her , you may guesse vvhere , and so like the slippery Trojan left her .  And foolish creature , she vvho soon repented it , and vvith her shame is fled to vvhat part of the vvorld vve knovv not .  Novv upon this , my poor brother that lov'd her so , fell into discontent , forsook his lord , and vvould have left the Land , but that he vvas prevented and brought home .  Thus obstinate , for I think verily he does it but to crosse my father , for sending him out of the vvay vvhen the mischief vvas done .  I tell you Sister vve must . He is so crosse himself , that vve shall never get any thing of him that we desire , but by desiring the contrary .  Because he should get me none . O Sister , both he and Mr. Cockbrayne , can vvish novv that I had had his son .  Hush ! the old men .  I mark his Answer .  And that were a sure way to go without it .  Truly , sir , I long'd to be out o th' house before .  These new walls do so stink of the lime methinks .  There can be no healthie dwelling in 'em this twelve-moneth yet .  Now you have done the best brotherly office that ever made a Sister happy .  And so is mine , I know , but yet he swore , that I should match my self before he knew 't , or I should never marry .  You have ta'ne the likeliest course that could be . But what is your disguiz'd woman , Brother .  Shall he go from me ?  No more then he does me , sir .  'T is so , indeed , sir .  I had your consent , sir , you commanded me to take my choice in vvhom I pleas'd , before you vvould take notice . 