 WHilest yet the Leaden finger'd god of sleepe  Keeps close the eye-lids of phantastick youth ,  Feeding their aery fancies with light dreames ,  Of wanton pleasures ; giddy , vaine delights ,  The ever watchfull cares of aged Parents  Throw ope the gates and windowes of soft rest ,  Making our midnight noone , to guard and order  The wholsome fruits of our continuall labour .  VVholsome and happy off-springs of my paines  Thus I salute you and implore your safty ,  And thus that you may rest , grow and increase  Mine eyes prevent the breakers of your peace .  But see the morning hastens to relieve me !  Day spreads apace , and warmes the provident hand  Doe out the uselesse taper . Hoe ! what hoe !  Enter Nanulo , Astutta .   Nanulo ! Astutta ! is it midnight with you ?  About about , you drowsy headed drones ,  VVhere is my Daugher ?  Sirrah haste you to Pantalonies house .  VVho else , you Rat ?  Tell him I doe attend his comming hither ,  To expedite the worke we have in hand .  Here take the Keys ; lock the dore after him  Then call my Daughter to me .  Flavia my Girle , see how my early care  Provides for thee , The toyle of many yeares  By dayly travaile , and my nightly watches  Lies here in readinesse to build thy fortune .  And take it willingly , since thou consentst  To match unto my will ; whereby this Coyne ,  Thy selfe , and both our joyes may finde increase .  I can no lesse then thanke thee Flavia ,  Although I must confesse , my sute was long ,  And grievous to me , ere thy childish will  Yeilded to my appointment of a husband :  For whom ( with no small joy I speak 't ) thou didst  Cast off ( indeed ) the off-scum of his blood  The poore , degenerate in fortune , fellow ,  I scorne to name him .  By which thou gain'st the Nonpareil of heires  In all this wealthy City .  It will be so : I finde it my deare child  For though thy joy I know will be abundant  Mine must exceed , that includes thine with it .  VVhy smil'st thou Flavia ? to think how deare  Thy Hymeneall day , to morow is ?  How ! ha ! what 's that ?  This money 's mine againe , and thou art not  If thou dost wish one dayes procrastination ,  Degenerate brat , changeling —  Th' ast seene thy last of happinesse : all content  From this black minute , and thy selfe are strangers .  Get you in  I 'le mew you up where never Sun shall show  Into what endlesse misery I 'le cast thee ;  Nor any sound bring succour to thine Eare .  To call thee back from torment .  My selfe will be your Keeper , Cook , and Carver .  Sorry ! for what ?  Didst thou not say thou wept'st , because to morrow was come so nigh ?  Ha! I beginne to be now sorry indeed .  Now I am sorry with all my heart ; and here 's a  Thousand checqines to expiate my trespasse .  But do not let thy husband know of them  Till he redeeme a fault to their full value ,  Oh mine own Girle , my honey , honey Girle ?  Thou didst , thou didst ,  With teares of joy I must confesse thou didst .  Speake yet , and I will heare attentively .  What 's this you say ?  Well , on then , on .  Sweet Modesty .  And i st not a sound policy my Flavia ?  A Bell rings .   But now no more ; old Pantaloni comes ,  I take it . How now ! dos he not come ?  It is my Flavia interchangeably  To seale your Marriage covenants ; make thee happy ,  Looke to my house and havings ; keepe all safe ,  I shall be absent most part of this day ,  Be carefull Girle , thine own speciall good  Requires thee to 't : and therefore I dare trust thee .  Thanks my child ,  Come sirrah lock the doore . But first ( d ee hear )  Beware that none have entrance in my absence  Except Fabritio , Pantalonie's Sonne ;  Or such as I have warranted , looke to it .  Come lock the doore I say .  It is , and Prospero your learned Councell  Is with him here , attending too , our comming .  None else to speake with mee ?  I thanke his care .  I see that all goes well . No crosse but one ,  That I forgot a writing , which in haft  I am constrain'd to fetch . Now where 's my Girle ?  I will not see 'em . Put the woman by  Into the Gallery , or somewhere remote ,  Quick , quick , dispatch .  No , no : my cost is amply shown already :  And will be more , before the Wedding 's over .  Without a needlesse wast in Gawds and Trifles ,  One ring   See who 's at doore .  Exit Nan .   A fathers care consists not in expence  That is not qualified with providence .  Say I am comming .  Where are you Flavia ?  Flavia .  Why Flavia I say ?  T is here that I would have thee Flavia .  Give me the Key of this presse here .  What 's the matter ? ha !  T is like I let it fall .  Doe , or break it open .  Peace giddy headed harlot , watch that none Take it away , while I runne to recover 't , Nanulo , Nanulo .  Nanulo ! The Key to let me forth .  The Key I saw .  Villaine slave ! come open the dore .  I feare you can be quicker in my absence .  Took you not up a Cabinet , friends ?  O you watch well above there .  I 'le have you ear-mark'd Villaines for your theft ,  Know you not me ?  An accident hath crost me . Look you sir ,  You have authority ; Here 's a Counterfet  ( Deserves examination ) would have rob'd me .  Carry this in ; and send away the woman   What 's the matter there ?  What 's that ?  Why stay you there sirrah ?  I feare I am undone . Flavia , Astutta , hoe !  T is so , t is so , some Robbers are slipt in ,  And now make havock of my goods and Daughter .  Astutta , Flavia ! O this cursed chance  I feare will ruine me and all my hopes .  Enter Pedler woman .   How came you hither ?  Were you not here before , and in the house ?  I fear a new , and further secret mischief .  How gotst thou thither ?  Ravish'd or murderd is shee ?  O me accursed wretch .  Devills are in this plot .  Cast there your petulant wit on misery .  Good sir , your best advise .  This is the house you say .  Give me my Daughter , Harlot .  You are well met Gentle-woman — I gave you lost .  Audacious strumpet that seduces my Daughter .  Not , in consenting to the stealth ?  VVill you be gone ?  Begone I say .  Goe thrust her out of dores .  How thou wilt to be rid of thee .  T is boldly spoken .  Thou lookst like one indeed of upright Conscience !  Fetch that Priest .  Forbeare mee , I am off againe .  I am off againe . The pandare was the Priest ,  The Match is no Match , you no more my Children ,  But Knave and strumpet .  I am content . 