 Oh — Oh — and Oh-ho — O and alas ! O and alack for O — O — O — that ever a true Neapolitan born ,  should live to see this day in Sicily ! there O-again , O Queen — O me — what wilt thou do ? O — O — what shall I do ? O — thou maist work and starve ; O — and I may beg and live : O — but from thee I cannot live : O — I cannot , nor I wonnot , so I wonnot .  Oh — I will hear no comfort .  Is my Queen Countrey-woman call'd back again ?  She would eat me , would she not ?  But I le not trust her on a fasting-night : Fools are meat then .  No , no , take you your course , and serve her if you please ,  I have play'd the Fool too long , to play the Knave now .  I le after my old Mistresse .  If I be hang'd for doing good , pray let it not grieve you : and as I am an Innocent , I le never grieve for you though you be hang'd never so justly .  Take you your swinge , let me take mine I pray .  So , having turn'd his old Wife out of door ,  A man may drink and frolique with his who —  VVould have thought it ? did you think to catch me ?  Catch me if you can : when it shall be Treason to say there is an honest woman , I le say my Countrey-woman was justly condemn'd of Adultery : and till then , I know what to say : Catch me if ye can .  Poore woman , at what River ?  O the new thing at home here ; I will not call her Queen , not I : my Countrey-woman is my Queen .  She was when she was Sforza's Daughter :  But she has turn'd a Father out of him .  The Fool my Lord will not stay .  The Fool dare say more than the wisest Lord dares do amongst ye : you will not take my own proper goods from me , will ye ?  Your VVardrope cannot matcht it : pray give me all again ; or if you will be the Kings and Queens Takers with that extremitie to force my goods from me , then present this to his Highness , and this to Hers ; and tell them , 't is all the poor discarded Fool could spare them .  No Sir , to you with an excusee moy ,  If you be your Queens Fool-taker , you may  In Countrey , Court and City quickly find  Fools upon Fools that I shall leave behind .  New Lords ( you know the Proverb ) make new Laws ,  New Lawyers of an old make a new cause .  New workmen are delighted with new Tooles ,  And her new Majesty must have new Fools .  New fools she wants , not having you about her ,  VVhile the old Fool makes shift to live without her .  If I get but enough to keep me from Court ,  I care not .  Farewell fine Lords , adieu old Courtier .  And look you new Master , yonder 's my old Mistress ;  VVhat Fools were we ; that could not find her sooner !  Alas ! I can see through her : there is not  So thin a Queen in the Cards .  No , if it were , what a many would have been poyson'd the last Lent , that may live to be very good Subjects , very good Subjects all the yeer after , except a few Fish-Dayes ?  Pray leave this fooling , Mistriss : eat your meat ;  And here 's good Drink to wash it down : and then  If you have a minde to hang us , let the  Gallows take his due ; for my own part , I had  Rather hang like a man , while I am good  For something , then you should pine away to nothing .  Lo , there again , that 's Treason too , to call her Queen .  Any woman but she , now in her Case , would eat such an Husbands Brains without Butter , rather then forsake good meat ; and but for this wilfulness in her , I should not think her a woman , I . But as she is , new Master , we shall never do good upon her : and therefore since your Grace has not the grace to eat this meat , mark with what a grace or without Grace , I will eat it my self : do you fear Poyson ?  [ Eats ]  Now Bottle let me play a part with thee ; can you think this Poyson , that goes down so merrily ?  'T is like enough ; I did but eat to get her an Appetite , therefore I 'll e'en eat on , till all be done , to get her the better stomack : now Bottle , to thee again .  I 'll eat again , for that : I am as poor as  they ; and you never knew Charity in Beggers towards one another . Bottle again for that .  What Saints are those that they invoke so ?  Stay there , old man : I have heard there is  Neither Lawyer nor Physician in all the Province .  Nor Gentleman nor Begger in their Confines .  And , which was worth all the rest , their Priests  Were ever the best good-Fellows in all the Country .  That shall be try'd ; I 'll have a whiff on 't :  If I get a mischief by it , let the Fools harm be a warning to the VVise .  A Surgeon , a Surgeon ! Oh a Surgeon !  A Surgeon : Oh twentie Surgeons , bonesetting Surgeons .  I am out of joynt . I le taste no more of such contagious Aires , To save as many Queens as I have hairs . Oh Surgeons and Bone-setters , Bone-setters and Surgeons , all my Bones , all my Bones for a penny .  I have not a finger nor a toe in joynt : my Leggs ,  my Thighs , my Arms , my neck .  My back and Crupperbone is out of joynt .  Oh for a Sowgelder , a Surgeon I would say .  Out a joynt , out a joynt , I am all out a joynt .  No , nor a Thing  I have that has no Bone in 't : All else is out a joynt .  I met them all dancing and frisking home .  The blind man made the way : the dumb man sung ,  The deaf kept time to his Notes : the lame led on  The Dance to all the rest : whilst I can go  No further .  [ lies down ]  'T was for you I ventured .  And now again I do repent that ever I did repent . Oh for a Stone-cutter , a Bone-setter I would say .  VVith as good a will as ever I stood to woman .  In very pretty plight , I feel I am sufficient .  Haugh , heigh —  [ Capers and turns ]  't will do again : and if I durst venture into that unluckie Countrey again , I would now teach the Clowns how to Dance for joy .  To work and play I pray you ,  Then if there be a Purgatorie on earth ,  I le venter through it for her , heigh , o , ho .  I have e'en din'd , let 'em take away when they please .  Pray take me in your way , and run me through her , if you be honest Murderers . Help : Murder , Murder !  That is to say , Give me their Swords under my Fools Coat , I 'll hurt no body .  No countrey-woman , they had no such Beards . But I will try if I can make 'm like 'em : O rare ! what a nimble Barber am I ? Lod. They are the self-same men , the two cashier'd Lieutenants that Sforza should have hang'd for mutinies in the late Wars .  Abi hinc & malam rem , away with 'm .  What 's that ?  After you is manners .  Pray what 's my Caput ? and what 's your Helicon ?  No truely Sir , your Simile non est Idem .  I am no Lord , what ere you like me to .  What I may pass for in the Country I know not ,  At Court I was a Fool when she was Queen .  And 't was my  Cozen Lord' I warrant that you box'd .  Sure , sure , his Scholars have over-Master'd him , and whipt him out of his wits .  Yet I hope  Your hast will bring you short to cut the Rope .  They do not intend to spill their blood , Countrey woman , they would but strangle them : never pierce the skin , nor make 'm an hair worse men , if you consider rightly what they are .  O how I love a Sage ! how many Sages do you allow in your Precinct ?  But is not the learned Curate a Sage amongst ye ?  Pray let me have a Sages place amongst ye then : I long to be a Sage .  Sage Brother Lollio , I thank you .  Make me but once a Sage , and then fear nothing .  She thanks you all good People , pray depart ,  To morrow you shall have the second part :  She shall appear again unto you ; pray depart ,  The men in Peace , the Wives in quietness ,  And let your bigger children still the less .  Heaven bless our Holy woman .  So , now the Hubbub 's gone : I pray pass on .  I shall be as weary of the Cottage , as of the Court ,  If this noise hold : here 's thrusting and crowding  As much as there , onely here they have less Pride .  Here come more of our weather-headed wise neighbours .  That was pronounc'd bravely ; O my brave new neighbours !  I , well said , hold her to it .  VVell said again : that 's a sound point , be sworn  These be true Blades .  Alas poor Pilgrims ! here 's she must do you good .  Hold a little ,  That 's the greatest grief a woman can endure :  But trouble not thy self to seek for cure .  Too many a man i' th' world will change with thee  A wife that of her Language is too free ,  And give good Boot .  As sharp to do a mischief as ere was felt on .  O the last couple that came out of Hell !  How do you master Doctor , and Mistress Midwife ?  Is this the Pen your Doctorship prescribes with ?  This might soon write that might cure all diseases :  And are these the Labours you go to , Mistress Midnight ?  VVould you bring women to bed this way ?  Come away Pilgrims : we 'll cure 'em for you ,  If your own salves can cure you : O my sweet Pilgrims .  They 'l be a jolly company .  Your Queen ? have you a mind to be hang'd ?  Queen ? have you a mind to be hang'd ?  And can these turmoiles never have an end ?  Unless we load our heads and shoulders thus  Our bodies eke with Justice Capa Pe .  And Pepper all our brains with Policie .  Agree upon 't , Brother Sages of the Bench .  My Brother Poggio here said very well  And learnedly and as I would have said my self ?  ( If you will take his meaning ) to wit that as  Our Shool Mistris doats upon  Clemencie , it is fit that we run mad upon crueltie  Someeting her in the midst , we shall jump into the Sadle of Justice .  Agree again , Sage brothers of the Bench : and let no private  Itch grow to a put like Scab .  Most true . And is it fit therefore that you brabble among your selves , and leave all worse then you found it ?  Nay Brothers o' th Bench .  Nay Brothers : this will control the business .  Pray Brothers yet agree : and remember we use no mercy   Pray thinke on your speeches .  How ?  A Traytors head is not his own head : 't is forfeited by Law to  the King ; 't is the Kings head .  Passion becomes not Judges , Brothers o' th the Bench .  The offender comes ,  Now they are hot , he shall be sure to smoak for it .  Is he not hang'd yet ?  Why thou choplogicall Fellow , dost thou not think , there are as good men hang'd , and as good sport made of it too , in the blind holes of the Kingdom , as in the very eye or open mouth of it ? ha !  Tell us you are a Courtier ? we find here  Faults to correct , which you perceive not there .  So , now away with him , I have spoke my best .  So , now away with him . Hang him first , d' ye hear  He has the bast clothes , that will encourage  The Hangman the better to turn the rest after him .  VVell found out .  The King at hand ? 't is time for us to look about us .  Come then , let 's away ,  No longer Brothers of the Bench wee 'l be ,  But of the Revels for his Majesty .  Old Lad , art there ? still sick o th' Kings disease .  And good King Pardon me , and my pure brother Judges , and Sages of the Dorpe here , that would have hang'd those Manufactors .  And I le as quickly make them run mad with Joy . 