 I wonder at it ; Sure some strange disaster has suddenly befallen him . He was , last night the merriest man alive , drank healthes ; told tales ; sung Catches ; Trowle the Bowle ; Tosse the Cannykin ; and what not ! and all for joy , that his sonne , he said , was upon his returne , whom he has not seen these dozen years , since he sent him a little Lad into France , to be bred there .  Right .  They are both so equally handsome , and vertuous , that , be their dowries so , and their consents alike , I 'll take my choice of crosse and pile for either , with such a friend as thou art .  It is so Val . yet not with some policie do I wish thee a fortune : for , insooth . young Gentleman , though I like your person , and some of your qualities , yet by reason of your wants , I finde you something heavy on my purse-strings ; and my selfe scarce able to supply you . And , if we faile of good matches , I must even turne you over shortly to the hopes you hoast of in your City-Mystresses and Tradesmens wives — .  Come , let 's go .  In that faire hope we 'll enter and fall to .  Noble Mr. Matchil , though we are your meat  Before we saw you you will give us leave  To take our leaves , and thank you ere we part .  You 'l give us leave first to salute the Ladies .  Yet I have heard you say  You never tasted joy for divers yeares  Till your wife died : since when , a King of mirth ,  And now to marry agen is such a thing .  Is she so ougly ?  Now he resumes his humour .  But how can you  Presume before the dangerous marriage-trial  That she whom y'have chosen will be obedient .  Then you are sure to her .  But we have talk't away the Gentlewomen .  To me , to me , to me .  What , your daughter ?  Marrie a maid .  And we will be her Hench-boyes , if you please .  I saw your Cashier  Go forth e'ne now with a strong lusty Porter  Loaden with money : I will not say my teeth  Water'd at it .  Was ever such a humour in a man , as this mad  Merchant Matchil is possest with .  To marry so , to spight his childe and kindred .  And yours in me .  For as I said before , good Valentine .  I must returne you to your City wives .  By the old trade to pick your maintenance  Out of em , as you boast you can .  Yes , is that one — ?  Didst ever lie with her ?  How got you acquainted .  Bold-face .  I , thou hast a devillish catch i'th at same eye .  But to the point .  VVhat follow'd then ?  And that 's your last .  Sure thou mistak'st the woman .  This is not she , thou talk'st so freely on Bounce .  I cannot blame this fellow now so much  For using of his wits to get his living ,  Though in an idle way ; as for traducing  People of worth and vertue , as this woman  Who I am credibly inform'd is vertuous  And too discreet for him to shark upon .  Therefore to grace himself , he slanders her .  I have alwayes lik't his company till now ,  And shall hereafter be more wary of him .  Your stay was somewhat long .  So 't seems , by trusting thee that hast no power to keep a secret .  Yet thou hast the conscience  To work a mans estate out of his hands  By his wives frailty , even to break his back .  O Tradesmen , why do you marry ?  Thank your own sweet courses .  But I shall put you off  O'one of your sweet courses , or at least  I 'le strain a point of friendship to be satisfied  Touching this woman , 't will be worth discovery .  I cry thee mercy , Val .  I was upon our former subject Matchil .  Wouldest thou touch such a thing ?  She can be no such woman .  Yes , and walk with you towards it .  GOod Mr. Matchil .  Nay , I le be not so loud .  Introth you will be both sorry , when your passion gives but least way to your understandings . Mr. Matchil , let me perswade with you .  Mrs. Matchil .  Doest thou conspire to grieve him ?  All are not times for Jest , friend Valentine .  Have a little patience , sir .  While I talk calmly with her .  With all my heart . What is your game ?  O , here they are .  And thus it should be .  With joy to see this reconciliation .  Nor I a friend .  This change is admirable .  I be sworn , he frights her .  Any ill newes that you change colour so ?  She comes again .  What doest thou think of this ?  Nor have I seen it , but we both will shortlie .  'T is but of two or three dayes standing yet .  I 'le tell thee all know .  It carries a love-sound ; but I am told  It is but private lodgings kept by  Both men and women , as I am inform'd , after the French manner .  That professe Musick , Dancing , Fashion , Complement . —  A little perhaps in private .  But guesse now in whose house all this .  Even in your City-Mystresses , that lends you  Money so freely .  Yes sir , I doubt , your borrowing of the wife  Has broke the husband , put 'hem off their trade ,  And now they seek new wayes to live by projects .  But not without me , good Val . We 'll finde a time .  Together , and our Mrs. Matchil with us .  Sir , we have heard your Fame ; and love your Arts .  And pray that our ambition be excus'd ,  Which drew on our Intrusion .  Are these your Gentlewomens voices , sir ?  Now Val . thou knowest the way .  Nay , friend .  Nay , gentle Val . forbear .  Now it works in her .  Nay , good Sir Swithin , — Ladies — we have yet  Dauncing to come , and a Collation promis'd .  Be fearlesse Lady , and upon my life ,  Honour , and faith ; you are secure from danger .  It is not more my love  Unto your vertue , and your faire endowments .  Then pity in me labours your release .  Nor is it rather to enrich my self .  Then to save you from so immense a danger ,  As you had fallen into by yielding under  Your Uncles weaknesse in so fond a match .  Now you are free .  If you can think your self so , and but yield  Unto my present Counsel .  You see  I still deal fairlie w' ye ; and give you power  To keep guard on your self .  You have befriended me  In this good enterprise : And one good turne  Requires another . And now for that I told you ,  Touching your wife , your Cock you so rejoyce in .  Stand by and observe .  Nay mark .  Be patient man .  By all meanes hear her first . Pray grant her that .  Alas , poor man , I was in this too busie .  Now Val . your brags to make men think you lay with her .  I must admire this woman .  I love you sir ,  And waited on your wife but as your Spie ,  For feare he might have led her to more folly .  Here are  Some in the house that would not be seen by us .  And if that  Old fellow be your brother Strigood , t is most strange   No not I .  Most wonderful .  Agreed .  Within Strigood . Where are you Gent'emen ?  Come away Val .  But are they friends agen ?  Peace , hear a little more .  I am bound to thee for ever .  I thank your love . But sir , 't is your consent  We only seek .  Thank you sir . 