 ALL Cheape-side , and Lombard streete Madam , could not have furnish'd you with a more compleat bargaine , you will find it in the wearing , and thanke me both for the goodnesse of the stuffe , and of the Manufacture .  I know your Ladiships payment such ; And they are priz'd so Madam to a farthing .  I protest unto you Madam that parcell of Lace for a Bed as you intend it , was bespoken , and agreed for at six shillings the Ounce by a very great person : but because ready money came not to fetch it off , Fortune reserv'd it here for you , you could not have been so fitted on the sodaine else within London walls ; and I am glad the same fortune was so favourable to me , as by my hands to designe it for your Ladiships use and pleasure . I hope Madam we shal hear of a young heir a comming shortly , and that will make it a rich and fortunate Bed indeed ; And then Sir Olyver would thanke me too .  Yes , good Madam .  All Madam .  Here Madam all in readinesse .  'T is but light paines to weigh it Madam . But let me save your Ladiship that labour .  Some beere for my Lady presently .  Your Ladiship is pleas'd .  The od money is but a small matter Madam .  What meanes your Ladiship ?  A good turne Madam ?  Madam your Beere .  I shall presume then Madam — Drinks .  And I hope you will finde your money so well bestowd Madam , that you will vouchsafe always to know the Shop .  The humblest of your servants Madam . Open the Boot for my Lady .  I would the Devill were in your Coachmans Coat to take his carriage for his paines .  Lay your comands on me good Madam .  No Madam , his name is Bellamie , much depending on the young Lord Lovely .  Most courteous Madam — and once more to the Devill . But on my life her chast Ladiship is taken with this beard-lesse Bellamie . How shee shot eyes at him !  My eares are open Sir .  Fie , fie upon 't ! what talke is this ? I am vex'd , and you would mad me .  A crosse businesse that has happened in my Shop to day , I being none of the wisest Chapwoman , have undersold a parcell of the best Commodities my husband had . And should hee know 't wee should have such a scwable .  Talke so , and I will heare you , your amorous notes sound like Play-speeches .  They pretend onely that wee should over-looke our servants , when they but set us there for shew to draw in custome : but in making us such over-seers they are overseene themselves ; Shopkeepers-wives will be medling and dealing in their kinde , and as they are able , as wel as their husbands ( some much better , and more profitable ) but I was overreach'd I confesse .  No , the matter was not much ( that never fretted me ) but the manner has eene kild a Shee shop-keeper . I cannot be long-liv'd , here under a Pent-house , as my Lord ( you know ) told mee when he said he would shut mee out of this servitude , and that I should change my Coat , though my husband could not , before hee were an Alderman , and be rank'd with Ladies .  So it appeares by the Tailor and the Mercer , whom he sent foure dayes since to measure me out , and sute mee to his Honour , and no returne of them found , yet his Land might ha' beene measur'd all and sold , while a poore sute is dreampt on , had he borne the mind of some Lord ?  How easie a worke  'T were for one woman to supply 'em both ,  And hold her husband play to levell Acoile ,  A wooden two-leav'd booke , a paire of Tables  Would do 't .  At the beare at the Bridge-foot six a clock , good .  Sir , I finde my Lords honorable appointments here , and have heard you all this while .  I will not blame you on your Lords behalfe ;  Because you have enough rebuk'd your selfe .  But Sir , if you presume upon the favour  I give your Lord , and therefore to obtaine me ,  Cause I am his , you undervalue me  To thinke that I can stoop unto his servant ,  Though almost his Companion , you may thinke  After that degradation by degrees ,  I may , in time , descend unto his Footman , I 'me no cast  Garment of his Lordships yet .  d ee heare , d ee heare sir , Mr. Bellamine ,  One word before you goe .  Pray attend you the tother end o' th' Shop , If I cannot handle a Customer , why dos your Master trust mee ? Could a frowne fright you ? Let a smile then cheare you .  Pray leave your Player-like passionate expressions . And if you love mee , like a Man speake to me .  As I am a Woman ; are you silent ? if you doubt the length of my mans Eares at that distance , you may whisper what so ? But that is a right shop-whisper indeed with Trades-women that are handsome ; Is that the most you will give sir ? Could I afford it so , doe you thinke I 'd make two words w' ye ? yet this before you goe — Kisse . Now match it for the price I 'le give it you for nothing .  Doe so , and if ( I say ) you love mee , speake plainely what you would have mee doe , or what you would doe with mee ( I love to dant these young things that love before they can love to the purpose , or speake to 't handsomely like a Boy that would faine be shooting at wild-fowle , before hee knowes how to discharge a Birding-piece ) I would heare you speake , you have often muttered and fribled some intentions towards me , but I would heare you speake . Come , if you love me lay by the feare of the Lord that sent you , and tell me roundly now , what you would have me doe ?  Well ; what ?  With what ? or to doe what ?  Is that all your sute , 't is granted , with my thanks to you ; Have you no more to say ?  Nay thinke not of your Lord , but aske me , something .  How can you tell ?  Not in his sight perhaps . What is it ? come .  It is then , let it be so . Go to Schoole child .  Will that be a wrong to your Lord ?  Dos he know this ?  Come sir , I 'le dally w' ye no longer , I know what you would have with me .  No , but I have you o' the hip . 'T is plaine you would lie with me : deny it if you can .  What need you when I know it , you would lie with me , and you shall . Take courage man .  Yes , in good earnest , you 'l finde it no trifling businesse , when you come to 't once . But sir , upon condition .  All purpose on 't is lost , and all comes out else .  You saw here at your comming a faire Lady .  But she did of you , she is calld the Lady Thrivewell .  The same , you have known her it seemes .  I will be briefe with you , as you love mee shee loves you as eagerly , but with much more boldnesse , you saw her whisper mee , and how loth shee was to depart , when her eye was upon you .  Shee is my noble friend , and the sweetest Lady , I need not set her out . But though you thinke you suffer in your honour , in being an instrument twixt your Lord and mee , with the base blot of Pander sticking on you , ( these were your words ) I have ingag'd my selfe for her to be your Pandaresse ; be so , I shall be even with you in businesse if you account it so .  To urge against my selfe , for that sweete Lady , which no Woman else I thinke would doe , that loves you so unfainedly as I . But 't is my fate , and the injunction I must lay upon you , to make mee yours . That first you give your selfe to her Embraces ; I 'le give you means for your accesse to her , and your successe with her , which done , and on your faith affirm'd to mee , 't is so , I will perpetually bee yours more freely then your Lords .  For that I 'le satisfie you soon , my husband coming we must to night at the Beare —  My Lord writes so .  Thomas your hopes are vaine , Thomas in seating mee here to overreach , or underreach any body . I am weary of this Mechanick course Thomas ; and of this courser habit , as I have told you divers and sundry times Thomas , and indeed of you Thomas that confine me to 't , but the bound must obey .  Then I am friends agen .  Intruth it shall , and I am very much taken with it . Friend I have found a Customer to day that will take off my rich parcell of broad Bed-lace , that my Lord Paylate bespoke , and left on my hands , for lack of money .  I have sold it already friend , with other Laces at a good rate .  Yes friend , a hundred pounds , and somewhat more .  I have dispos'd of the money , the odd hundred pound for apparrell , friend , and other accommodations for my selfe .  I have done it friend , whereby to appeare more Courtly , and Ladilike as you say , to gaine you more custome to your Shop .  And friend you must not be angry , or thinke much of it , if you respect your profit friend .  Then friend , let your shop be your own care for the rest of this day , I have some busines abroad .  Is that a friendly question ?  To watch me , shall I ? and give you account of my actions ? was that spoke like a friend ?  Yet againe ?  Neither to supper , nor to bed perhaps .  But if I chance to stay , you cannot be a faithfull friend and aske mee where , or in what company , friendship you know allowes all liberty .  As it was given by you I can , for I am prepard by it to take pleasure from you , and shall with greedinesse expect it till I have it .  Or any other man you should ha' put her to that , her Husband 's but a Bungler .  I doe but guesse .  For sending you , I know shee did and will .  Indeed !  Well , but what in your Acts of Love ?  That token confirmes all . Had I the spirit of Witchcraft , when puting upon chance for my Revenge , to find Reward ! Have you the money ?  O you are cunning , lesse I should breake with you you thought to oblige me by 't .  Sweete Bellamy I am yours , I could be sorry now I have lost so much of thee . This Kisse , and Name your time —  Shall you be ready so soone thinke you after your plentifull Lady-feast .  And with all faith and secresie I am undone else , you know my vowes unto my Lord .  No more my husband comes . Pray Sir returne my thanks unto my Lord for his right noble bounty , and not mine alone , for so my husband in much duty bound also presents his thanks unto his Lordship .  I st not enough I know Friend ? will you ever transgresse in your impertinent inquisitions ?  Will you never be governd by my judgement , and receive that onely fit for you to understand , which I deliver to you undemanded ? Doe not I know the weight of your floore thinke you ? Or doe it you on purpose to infringe friendship , or breake the peace you live in ?  Did you not Covenant with mee that I should weare what I pleased , and what my Lord lik'd , that I should be as Lady-like as I would , or as my Lord desir'd ; that I should come , and go at mine own pleasure , or as my Lord requir'd ; and that we should be alwayes friends and call so , not after the sillie manner of Citizen and Wife , but in the high courtly way ?  O dos it so ?  How do you talke ? As if you meant to instruct 'em to abuse me .  To prevent that I will remove out of their walke , and keepe shop no more .  Fie , 't is uncourtly , and now I 'le tell you Friend , unaskd , what I have done for you besides in my late absence , and all under one .  What 's that you say Friend ? mee thinkes you mutter .  By my Lords favour and direction I have taken it , And I will furnish it so Courtly you 'l admire .  No you must keepe your Shop Friend , and lie here if you please .  No not with me at all Friend , that were most uncourtly .  Softly for stumbling Friend , I 'le doe you any honourable offices with my Lord , as by obtaining sutes for you , for which you must looke out , and finde what you may fitly beg out of his power , and by courtly favour . But keepe your Shop still Friend , and my Lord will bring and send you such custome , that your Neighbours shall envy your wealth , and not your Wife ; you shall have such commings in abroad and at home , that you shall be the first head nominated i' the next Sheriffe season , but I with my Lord will keepe you from pricking . Bee you a Cittizen still Friend , 't is enough I am Courtly .  What 's that you say ? doe you not mutter now Friend ?  As you respect my Lord , and your own profit , you must be a Cittizen still , and I am no more a Cittizens Wife else , and shee must be a Cittizens Wife , that wust doe all in all with my Lord Friends . Though my Lord loves the Clothes of the Court , hee loves the diet of the City best Friend , what ever I weare outwardly hee must finde me Cittizens Wife , which Friend , O hee 's a sweet Lord .  Who 's there ?  Sweet Bellamy why come you not to Bed ?  Dos the love that was so hot , and the desire that was so fervent , begin to coole in you ?  Has my meere consent to satisfie you , cloy'd you ?  Or did you court me to a promise onely to try my fidelity to your Lord , and then betray me ?  Pray , are you serious ? what is the accident ?  Will you not tell mee ?  Why prithee , who can heare us ?  I am undone then . He will tell my Lord .  Pray sir a word first , husband be farther .  You told mee sir , of a hundred pound that your sweete Lady Thrivewell sent me .  But shee has since countermanded you to keepe it , has shee , and to mock my expectation of that , and you ? why have you foold me thus ?  Come let 's kisse friends , and ( sweet ) to morrow night I will prevent his Witchcraft , in the full enjoyment of our free pleasures : be you true to me .  Another kisse and then good night .  Now may the spirits of all injur'd women , be added to mine owne , for my revenge , which I this night will dreame of slighted and mock'd , hee and his like shall know ,  That when a yeilding woman is so crost ,  All thoughts but of revenge with her are lost .  Will you pardon me ?  'T was but to try if I could make thee jealous .  But what brought you hither thinke you ?  Give me the Letter .  'T was I indeed that sent it .  No , I 'le have no bed-fellow to night .  I am at a word for that .  Well , you may draw the Curtaines , and sleepe by me .  Stay you at distance yet a while Friend , till I call you .  O my Lord —  My Lord , I am wrong'd , but would be loth to ingage your noble person in my quarrell , some servant of yours may do it .  I would have Bellamy , how thinke you ? is hee faithfull to you ?  Your Lordship has well trusted him I know .  But would your Lordship part with any Jewell , or choyce thing you love , and have intended onely for your own particular use , to him , or let him be your own partner in it ?  Bellamy has wrong'd mee to thinke me so unworthy as to be tempted to his lust ; Bellamy has wrong'd your honour in that ambitious attempt .  And Bellamy must right me , and your honour ; or you must cast off him or me .  Must not I be believ'd ? you shall have instance then to make it truth , Friend Thomas .  Pray verifie unto my Lord the discovery you made last night of me , and Mr. Bellamy .  The Villaine fetch'd mee forth , and lodg'd mee there as by your appointment , and for your own pleasure ; but when 't was late , and that your Lordship came not , thinking hee had an advantageous opportunity , hee soone discovers his love to me , and his treachery to your Lordship ; I being in a strait onely  ( finding happy meanes to send for my husband  to prevent him ) made him a false promise being secure in my husband ; and what had follow'd your Lordship understands .  You told me you had lost it , when I ask'd for t to burne it .  Hell take that Letter .  You had better ha swallow'd it full of Ratsbane .  Doe you note my art my Lord , to write as in a Mans Name , when I wrought it my self ?  His absence is another circumstance to a probability my Lord .  But hee was seene this morning to goe in at Sir Anthony Thrivewels .  My Lord I gave you an inkling of a familiarity betwixt him and the Lady Thrivewell , he has since declar'd their act of lust to me , and urg'd it for an instance to my yeilding .  Yes , to his face and hers .  I am discover'd and undone .  Your Lordship councells well .  That shall be as you please . 