 Thou keepst thy humor still my running Host .  We had no fear of that Sir , by the Rule ,  The common Rule o' th' world . Where do you find  Sons that have lives and Lands , will venture both  For their dead Fathers that are gone and car'd for ?  Nor was it onely to make tryal of  What husbands they would be ; how spend , or save ;  How mannage , or destroy ; how one or both  Might play the Tyrants over their poor Tenants ,  Yet fall by Prodigality into th' Compters :  And then the dead by pulling off a Beard ,  After a little chiding and some whyning ,  To set the living on their legs again ,  And take 'em into favour ; pish , old play-plots .  No Sir , our business runs another course ;  Know you this Gentleman yet ?  Shut up that point . You have heard no ill , you say ,  Among our sons and daughters in our absence .  Why dost thou tell him this ?  Who is 't ? canst thou tell ?  And mine 's too .  How cam'st thou by this knowledge .  But to the point , I pray thee .  Go , we follow thee .  What is he kill'd out right .  Or els but hurt ? Theophilus ! my boy !  Dead , past recovery . Stay the murdress there .  Look you , Sir , to her . I suspect your son too  Is not without a hand in 't by the hast  We met him in .  Look up my boy . How dost ? here 's none but friends .  Thou canst not see nothing ,  Look well about thee man .  He is not mad I know by that .  Thou art a wise child .  Thou hast it . Millicont , I have heard your story ,  And Lucy , you betwixt you sooth his fancy ,  He will be well anon . Keep 'em company Arthur ,  And Lucy , bid him welcome .  You Dionysia would be chid a little ;  But , Sir , let me intreat her pardon .  How does he now ?  In with him all I pray .  Come my friend Meanwell . Now to Quick-sands cause ,  To keep it out of wrangling lawyers jawes .  The face of danger is almost made clean  And may conclude all in a comick scene .  To th' point I pray .  And much good do 't you . I have other business —  Your Neece Sir was too good for my poor son .  Well Sir , I ha' done .  This is most strange .  Then she 's free .  'T is Winloss daughter ; we have found the error .  Well Mr. Quicksands : because you cannot answer  ( To put you by the fear of halter-stretching )  Since y'have ingag'd your word and whole estate  To be divorc'd : And you good Mr. Testy ,  If you 'l be willing yet that my poor son  To wed your Neece , as I shall find it lawful ,  I le undertake her safe recovery .  And he has her already .  As for example , see Sir .  And thou to me my good old servant Arnold .  I will take care for 't . Arthur , take my daughter well bestow'd .  With a glad fathers blessing .  Spoke like a good new woman . 