 Yes Sir , to Mr. Saveall your Unkles friend : But hee has stood your friend so long , and so often , to so little purpose in moving your Unkle for you , that he holds it utterly in vaine , to urge him any further , he told me .  Yes ; and then he would have told me , let your Master take his course .  Then would he ha' told me againe , what all your courses have been . Namely , running into debt by all the wayes can be imagin'd , and cheating by all could be invented , then that the said thing , ( as you call it ) your Unkle , before he cast you quite off , had redeem'd you out of Prison , and severall holds , within the space of 15.  Moneths 14. times .  Hee would ha' told me then againe , That severall Redemptions , cost your Unkle at least 2000 l.  And that upon your last revolt when he quite gave you over for a cast-away , two yeares since , he cast the third thousand with you , upon condition never to afflict him more . And then he Married in hope to get an heire .  Because you should not after his death cast away all the rest of the thousands , and ten thousands which you might have liv'd to inherit , if your Unkles love or Mr. Savealls counsell could have prevay'd with you against the Divill , and Debauchednes .  Sir , it were better for you to thinke upon some course by our selfe , and me your Creature ( that have stuck to you , or followed you through all fortunes ) to maintaine Rich Lace , and Bravery upon you . And thinke in time too before this be worne out , upon some new wayes for your supplies —  On your poor Whore Sir ( as you have brought her ) shee 's in worse case then your selfe ; your Cloaths are good enough —  Why though the Dice , and all other Household games , and all the Cheats belonging unto them have fayld you by your and their discoveries , till none dare venture so neare you as a Man hurles a Die or Skirrs a Card . Though all your hidden wayes in Hide-parke races are trod out , and all your bowling booties beaten bare off o' the Grounds and Allies ; and the sweete Honey-combes of all your Cockpit cosenages cut off . Though all your Arts of borowing are crost out of all Mens Bookes before you offer at 'em , while your old Debts stand fairely written , and all your Marts miscarry of putting out for credit , Venison to Citizens , or early Cherries , Codlings and Apricocks to their Wives availe you nothing , cannot something yet be found ?  Did your Father leave you nothing but wit to live upon for this ? And did hee leave you that but for yeares , and not for Life ? and is the terme expir'd ?  There 's a plot ! Think of your poore whore Sir ,  how shall she live , if you cast away your selfe ?  If you could leave her now , and betake your selfe handsomely to other Women , I have thought on a course .  To set up a Male bawdy house .  You are handsome , lovely , and I thinke able to do one Mans worke , two or three such Gentlemen more which I know , and can describe to you , with the wayes I 'le finde to bring in custome shall fill your purses —  For a little while Sir , till we have got a stock of rich cloathes ; And then we will put Drey-men , and Wineporters , Cornish Wrastlers & such like into those cloaths ; and make them Country Cavaliers . Have you not seen course snowt-faire drudges , clapt into bravery , that would doe more bodily service in a Brothell then twenty Ladies Daughters ? They are the Game-beares of a Bawdy-house , can play ten single courses for a cleane-bred Gentle-womans one , wee will hire fellowes for groates a peece a day , that shall ( without the additaments of Clary , Cawdle or Cock-broth ) get us forty peeces a Man before Night , or perhaps a hundred by next Morning , out of such shee ▪ customers , as an Aunt of mine shall finde out for us .  Very good decay'd Gentlemen have done a much ; though I urge this , but for your pastime sir .  Your Wench is come indeed , but I hope you will not to bed before he be gone .  Lord how his heart beats ! pangs of death I fear .  But you have searched too deep I feare sir .  Now Wit and 't be thy will go with him . And I hope this will be his last hot fit of the Unkle .  Cal'd by his fortune , hee is so .  O your patience sweete Mistris Phebe , a little patience .  Hee 's gone to be happy , and to make you happy . I dare promise you a Sattin Gowen within this sea'night .  Nor him neither will you ? Take heede what you say Madam Marion .  Birlady , a shrewd taske , and I fear an impossible worke .  Hold , hold , I 'le doe you all the good I can ,  How desperatly valiant a Whore growes , when she is so poore that her cloathes feare no tearing .  But by what meanes can you hope to bring this worke about ?  O Mr. Saleware , and he has a Wife too that bears it up bravely .  But not the how many times , the whens , the where 's , and the wherewithalls , I hope have you ?  You have schoold mee handsomely , and brought mee into sense of your injuries : you have beene overwrong'd , but not over-wrought , nor over-worne , you doe excell in Beauty , Strength and Spirit , which makes you in your very anger now appeare so lovely , that I professe my selfe your Creature . What would a kisse of this faire Hand now make mee do , and of those Lipps what not ?  Leave these temptations ; doe not strike me too deeply in love with you .  'T is true I am your Creature , as I am my Masters ; And sometimes the serving Creature , breakes his fast with a bit off the Spit before the same meat is serv'd up to his Masters table , but is never denyed to Diue upon his Masters leavings , you cannot thinke what an appetite that frown gives me .  Good wit too ! My appetite needs no Sauce ; nor shall you need to make use of Law , or Friend against my Master , but my selfe .  Be rul'd by me , if I doe not lay you downe , and joyne with you presently in a course that shall content you , then — hang me Lady at your doore . —  In the next roome we shall finde Pen , Inke and Paper , you shall write him such a Letter ( as I will dictate to you ) that shall so nettle him .  A pox of this interupting Cuckold , hee hinders all Trading , but his Wives , zownds I was going with full speed a Tilt , as the learned say , had not this horne-head come , we had writ lines together should have put down Hero and Leander —  Harke you Mistris Phebe , is this your Kinsman that you told me , you had told all the businesse to ?  How happy are you , that you came short to tell him so , else hee would ha' so beaten you , as never was Citizen beaten , since the great Battaile of Finsbury-Field .  Cry mercy Mr. Saleware , is it you ? I hope Mistris Saleware is well , your most exquisite , and most courtly wife ; the Flower-de-luce of the City .  Say you so , Mistris Phebe ? here 's small shew of it yet .  By the way Mr. Saleware , how many children have you by your most amiable wife ?  But by the way I speake of getting children . Or  I pray tell me , did not you correct one of her children once , for which your wife reprehended you , and bad you correct your own ? And how then shall my Master be sure that this ( if it be one ) is his ?  Yes , Welsh-blood .  But one word before you goe Sir , is this Gentlewoman , ( who was but a Countrey Chamber-maide when my Master tooke her to his mercy ) of such boasted blood , your Cozen by your owne , or by your Wives side I pray ?  I was warn'd before Sir , in my own understanding : for she is for great persons .  Yet give me leave to wait you down Sir , cud shoe did it tell it Kinseman that it is got with Champkin .  Better then wee know how to have payd , for that 's the glory on 't .  Yes , and 't will ring the changes shortly .  For necessaries sir , but you must not now count Sack and Tobacco , Whores and Fidlers in abundance , necessaries .  Because you 'l have but little then for extraordinaries , That is to say in a Gentleman for charitable , and pious works and uses .  Not spoy'ld neither : For I would but wave your purpose of flying at all new Game , and neglect your poore whore , who now begins to be so violent for  wrongs , shee can no longer beare , that shee intends to pursue you with her complaints hither to your Unkles House .  With great reason , for you are first dry in the morning .  You have got a brave possession here , I must needs say ; and I applaud your fortune most in this , that your young Aunt the noble Lady here , who you see feard would prove a cruell Stepdame to you , appeares to be more friend to you then your Unkle . 'T is a most gracious Sun-shine in her .  But sir , for Mistris Phebe , will you take no order for the poore soule ?  That 's somewhat hard Sir .  O now I finde you . And 't were richly worth  your patience , if you could winne the Widow by 't , for whom you stood in faire election once , untill your last debauchment .  Yes , if you leave it quite , but to forsake her whom you have brought low , to fall to others , were such a thing —  I 'le doe my best , but if shee should exclaime , and bring on her Cosen Mr. Saleware to bee clamorous —  Nay I am gone sir .  Yes sir , shee read it , kist it a hundred times ,  Then made a bosome Idoll on 't ,  And sayes you are the noblest Gentleman ,  Under a Saint that e're tooke care for sinner .  How could you erre so strangely ?  Do you thinke shee 'l part with 't sir ?  I cannot tell how to do that .  You have undone us both , and will discard us now you are warme in your Unkles bosome agen — but —  You put me in good minde , and if I do not somewhat .  'T is all upon account sit .  No Traytor neither since you left to be my Master , wounded and turnd me off .  Indeed the plot was his sir , I onely found the Actors .  The Woman shall take it , for now know sir , I love you not so ill as to undoe you . This Woman has beene mine as much as yours , shee has done as much with mee for Offices , and Service I have done for her , as shee has done with you for Love and Money , let her deny 't .  And if her Friends will make her brace of hundreds a leash I 'le marry , and honestifie her .  And Phebe if thou beest not better provided already , if I get not thee with Squire , let me turne clown . 