 How can you thinke so ?  Sure you dreame now , whence can this talke proceed else ?  May such a thought within mee , stick mee to the endlesse torments .  Psewh .  No , no , sweete heart , hee shall be welcome . And pray let me intreate you make no further inquisition ; If ( as you suppose ) there be a trouble in my thoughts , I shall soon passe it over .  Nay then you 'l grieve me indeed .  I pray content your selfe .  I shall do that now , which few wise men would .  But shee 's discreet , and has a fortitude  Above the boast of women ; should that faile ,  And this too weighty knowledge for a wife  Should prove a torment to her , I 'm excus'd  Shee pulls it on her selfe , and for Revenge  Should she against her protestation move it ,  I am enough above her .  No , you shall know it , sir , and ( if unshaken  Now , in your love to me ) the wonder of all wives  Y' are bound by a faire pledge , the kisse you gave me ,  To be unmov'd , and to forgive it though  It be a deadly injury to your self ;  It is , and 't is a great one ; and so great  But that you have seald my pardon , the hid knowledge  Of it should feed upon my Heart , and Liver ,  Till life were banish'd thence , rather then pull  Your just revenge upon me ; yet you frown not !  But before I declare it to your Justice ,  Let me renew your mercy .  Kisse .   And on this Altar , which I have prophan'd  While it breath'd sacred incence , now with penitence  Offer religious vowes , never to violate  My Faith or Love to you againe . One more  Kisse .   Before you heare it : for if then you stand not  Firme to your Mercy , it must be my last .  I 'le trespasse so no more ; yet many husbands  ( I wish they had my sorrow , and no lesse  Purposer to reformation ) wrong their wives .  'T is said ; and now your doome .  And can you be so mild ? then farwell thought .  No upon my vow .  As faithfully as to my Confessor ;  Light weight .   Saleware my Silke-mans wife .  Thou shalt know all to purge me of my folly .  After a costly , and a tedious Sute  With many an answer no , and no such Woman ,  At length shee yeilds for a hundred pieces ;  Had 'em , and I enjoy'd her once .  It is confess'd .  But here was the foule dealing , and for which  I hate her now : I having paid so great a fine , and  Tane possession thought after to deale Rent-free .  But shee at my very next approach , which was but yesterday denyes me Egresse , except I make it a new purchase at the same former rate , and so for all times after .  Not a word of unkindnesse , Nephew , you are welcome , give me your hand . George , thou art welcome .  Nay now thou speakest , and look'st too tamely George , I would have thee keepe and use the lively spirit that thou hadst , but not to let it flie at randome , as it has done George .  Well said , and againe welcome George . But ( and this you shall give me leave to say Mr. Saveall ) I remit your thanks for any inclination I had towards this reconcilement till I doe you some further kindnesse ; only you had good advocates , who pleaded friendly for you , Mr. Saveall , and your Aunt there before she ever saw you whom you may thanke .  Pray take notice of her .  I like that modesty .  George , here 's a Lodging for you in this house , and my Table has a place for you , send for your man to wait upon you .  Ha' you Wat still ?  The world 's well mended . To morrow you shall give me a note of your debts George , which I 'le take order for , if I may presume you have any .  Then not to wrong our selves , le ts in to Dance .  Well Wat , for this discovery I 'le make thy reward worth ten such masters services .  Sweet heart I have a suit to you — But first what Woman 's that with Nurse ?  That 's my good Girle .  'T is for my absence from thee , to accompany Mr. Saveall , to bring a deare friend on his way to Gravesend to night , who is sodainly to depart the Land .  No more o'th at Sweet heart , farewell , expect me early in the morning .  Life to me is torment .  Can more be said to aggravate thy shame ,  Or my affliction , then I have heard already ?  Did you not vow forgements then ? and thus ,  You freely would forgive my act ? and thus  Now to revenge it on me to my ruine ,  And your own endlesse infamy ? O 't is horrid .  O grosse dissimulation .  But I will have that friend thrust out of dore first .  You have prevayl'd .  I Need not cast thee off , or bid thee goe Now , and for ever from me , thine own shame Will force thee hence .  What is thine own take with thee , here 't is all Phebe .  Thou ever getst , or canst expect from me .  Use no uncivill Language while you are well .  How 's that ?  Canst thou expect reward from mee for any thing that can by thee be utterd ?  What ( Villaine ) canst thou speake to her prejudice ?  Darst thou talke so ?  Darst thou accuse her with him ?  What did shee confesse ?  O me most miserable if this be true !  Yes , and have wish'd a thousand times since , that I had lost the thousand pound I had about me then , and tane some wounds for 't in exchange rather then by that rescue to have taken thy Viperous selfe into my bosome .  Your wish tho' against your will is a good reward to him , for I love him the better for his wit in that plot , and care of his then Master .  I cannot condemne the conceipt however ; and am something taken with the wit on 't , would all the rest were no worse .  Sir you shall stay , and make your selfe good before authority , or cleare my wife .  The Courts of Princes and Religious Houses May so have been abus'd .  You 'l anon be silent , what 's the matter ? wee are busy .  At such a time ? excuse your selfe .  He is a villaine , seekes my utter ruine ,  You are undone for ever if you doe .  I tell you , shee 's a Whore with Child by him , layes claime to him , and I think hee 'l marry her .  How doe you meane ?  Had I thought so , I had spoke well of him  Against my conscience .  You are then undone .  Will you ?  Doe as you please .  With all respect my Lord .  I feare I shall be wretched .  I doe with my much joy .  Well sir , as I shall finde you by your wifes report I shall be still your Unkle . 