 Let me intreat your patience . She 's my wife Sir .  'T is but her modesty .  I shall , Sir , before morning  Better I doubt not . Come we shall agree .  Be not so rough and stiffe with her , good Uncle ,  I know my supple tender dealing will  Get more upon her love then all your chidings .  Indeed the better half ; not without hope  To have the rest as he may want my money .  She 'l make me blush anon I think .  She cals me chick and bird : The common names  With wives that Cuckold their old cravend husbands .  Shee 's gon as far  Beyond it now as it was to 't .  Is this your bashful Neece .  O intollerabl !  Shee 'l make a youth of me .  My edge is taken off . this impudence  Of hers , has outfac'd my concupisence .  Dasht all quite out o' Countenance ! what a beast  Was I to marry ? Rather , what a beast  Am I to be ? * How now ! O horrible .  What they , what all ?  Outragious Roysters .  What , with horn musick ?  T is a flat conspiracy .  This is your bashful modest whimpring Neece .  The foremost I say ; and lay him a block  For all the rest to break their necks upon .  Well consider'd .  We will to bed chick , since you 'l have it so .  This key shall be your guard : And here 's another  Shall secure me . My house has store of beds in 't .  I bring you not to an unfurnisht dwelling .  O immodestie .  I le hang first .  Mark you that ?  I hope she talks so idly , but for want  Of sleep ; and sleep she shall for me to night .  Here was a good night , and good morrow to  Given by a crew of Devils .  Pray read it you . Not my own house free from 'em !  The devil ow'd me a spight ; and when he has plow'd  An old mans lust up , he sits grinning at him .  Nay , I that have so many gallant enemies  On fire , to do me mischief , or disgrace ;  That I must provide tinder for their sparks !  The very thought bears weight enough to sink me .  Do you know your self ?  T is sworn and written in that letter there  Thou shalt be wicked . Hundreds have tane oaths  To make thee false , and me a horned Monster .  I know not what I can deny her now .  Or , tarry , tarry — stay , stay here a while .  I understand her drift , Sir , and applaud  Her quaint devise . T will put 'em to more trouble ,  And more expence in doubtful search of her ,  The best way to undo 'em is to foil 'em  At their own weapons . T is not to be thought  The 'l seek , by violence to force her from me ,  But wit ; In which wee 'l overcome 'em .  You are content you say to be lock'd up  Or put in some disguise , and have it said  Y' are gone unto your Uncles . I have heard  Of some Bridegrooms , that shortly after Marriage  Have gone to see their Uncles , seldom Brides .  I have thought of another course .  What if it were given out y' are run away  Out of a detestation of your match ?  When they consider my unworthiness  'T will give it credit . They 'l commend you for it .  I speak as they 'l speak .  Wee 'l put this instantly in act . The rest ,  As for disguise , or privacy in my house ,  You 'll leave to me .  T is the least thing I think on ,  I will not offer at it till your time .  Out of my doors pernicious knave and harlot ;  Avaunt I say .  You have all the wages you are like to have .  I am undone ,  And sham'd for ever by your negligence ,  Or malice rather : for how can it be  She could depart my house without your knowledge .  The door must be your way ; and find her out ,  Or never find my door again . Be gone .  So , so , so .  These cries are laughter to me : Ha , ha , ha .  I will be Master of my invention once ,  And now be bold to see how rich I am  In my concealed wealth . Come , precious mark  Of beauty and perfection , at which envy  And lust aim all their ranckling poysonous arrowes .  But I le provide they nere shall touch thy blood .  Turn'd , turn'd away  With blame enough for thy suppos'd escape :  Which they will rumor so to my disgrace  Abroad , that all my envious adversaries  Will , betwixt joy of my conceiv'd misfortune  In thy dear loss , and their vain hopes to find thee ,  Run frantick thorow the streets , while we at home  Sit safe , and laugh at their defeated malice .  I , that , that , that .  Be but so good and gentle to thy self ,  To hear me and be rul'd by me in that ,  A Queens felicity falls short of thine .  I le make thee Mistress of a Mine of treasure ,  Give me but peace the way that I desire it —  That I may fool iniquity , and Triumph  Over the lustful stallions of our time ;  Bed-bounders , and leap-Ladies ( as they terme 'em )  Mount-Mistresses , diseases shackle 'em ,  And spittles pick their bones .  First know , my sweet , it was the quaint devise  Of a Venetian Merchant , which I learnt  In my young factorship .  You have past your word ,  That if I urge not to infringe your vow  ( For keeping this moneth your virginity )  You 'l wear what shape I please . Now this shall both  Kill vain attemps in me , and guard you safe  From all that seek subversion of your honour .  I le fear no powder'd spirits to haunt my house ,  Rose-footed fiends , or fumigated Goblins  After this tincture 's laid upon thy face ,  'T wil cool their kidnies and allay their heats .  Why think'st thou , fearful Beauty ,  Has heaven no part in Aegypt ? Pray thee tell me ,  Is not an Ethiopes face his workmanship  As well as the fair'st Ladies ? nay , more too .  Then hers , that daubs and makes adulterate beauty ?  Some can be pleas'd to lye in oyles and paste ,  At sins appointment , which is thrice more wicked .  This ( which is sacred ) is for sins prevention .  Illustrious persons , nay , even Queens themselves  Have , for the glory of a nights presentment ,  To grace the work , suffered as much as this .  Now I thank thee .  Be fearless love ; this alters not thy beauty ,  Though , for a time obscures it from our eyes .  Thou maist be , while at pleasure , like the Sun ;  Thou dost but case thy splendor in a cloud ,  To make the beam more precious in it shines .  In stormy troubled weather no Sun 's seen  Sometimes a moneth together : 'T is thy case now .  But let the roaring tempest once be over ,  Shine out again and spare not .  Take pleasure in the scent first ; smell to 't fearlesly ,  And taste my care in that , how comfortable  'T is to the nostril , and no foe to feature .  Now red and white those two united houses ,  Whence beauty takes her fair name and descent ,  Like peaceful Sisters under one Roof dwelling  For a small time ; farewel . Oh let me kiss ye  Before I part with you — Now Jewels up  Into your Ebon Casket . And those eyes ,  Those sparkling eyes , that send forth modest anger  To sindge the hand of so unkind a Painter ,  And make me pull 't away and spoyle my work ,  They will look streight like Diamonds , set in lead ,  That yet retain their vertue and their value .  What murder have I done upon a cheek there !  But there 's no pittying : 'T is for peace and honour ;  And pleasure must give way . Hold , take the Tincture ,  And perfect what 's amiss now by your glass .  Please your own fancy . Take my keys of all ;  In my pawn Wardrobe you shall find to fit you .  Trust to my care for that . One knock . In ; in .  Is it to me your business ?  I am so . What 's your business ?  You have said enough . I 'le entertain no Mothers .  A good Maid servant , knew I where to find one .  O th' art a Norfolk woman ( cry thee mercy )  Where Maids are Mothers , and Mothers are Maids .  Hast thou ?  But where about in Norfolk wert thou bred ?  where they live much by spinning with the Rocks ?  Dost thou not know one Hulverhead that keeps  An Innocent in 's house .  No a husband man .  I am glad she do's not . How knew'st thou I wanted  A servant .  All , and what said she ?  The nevves goes current . I am glad o'th at .  This innocent countrey Mother takes me .  Her looks speak Wholesomness ; and that old vvoman  That Bovv lane purveyor hath fitted me  With serviceable ware these dozen years .  I 'le keep her at the least this Gander moneth ,  While my fair vvife lies in of her black face ,  And virgin vovv ; in hope she 's for my turn .  Lust , vvhen it is restrained , the more t vvil burn .  Come in , I 'le talk vvith you .  Be chear'd my love ; help to bear up the joy ,  That I conceive by thy concealed Beauty ,  Thy rich imprison'd beauty , whose infranchisement  Is now at hand , and shall shine forth again  In its admired glory . I am rapt  Above the sphear of common joy and wonder  In the effects of this our quaint complot .  But thine honor  Shall , in the vindication of thy name ,  When envy and detraction are struck dumb  Gain an eternal memory with vertue ;  When the discountenanc'd wits of all my jierers  Shall hang their heads , and fall like leaves in Autumn .  O how I laugh to hear the cozen'd people  As I pass on the streets abuse themselves  By idle questions and false reports .  As thus : good morrow Master Quicksands ; pray  How fares your beauteous bedfellow ? says another  I hear she 's not at home . A third sayes no :  He saw her yesterday at the still-yard  With such a Gallant , sowsing their dry'd tongues  In Rhenish , Deal , and Back-rag : Then a fourth  Sayes he knowes all her haunts and Meetings  At Bridgfoot , Bear , the Tunnes , the Cats , the Squirels ;  Where , when , and in what company to find her ,  But that he scornes to do poor me the favour :  Because a light piece is too good for me .  While a fifth youth with counterfeit shew of pity ,  Meets , and bewails my case , and saies he knowes  A Lord that must be nameless keeps my wife  In an inchanted Castle two miles West  Upon the River side : but all conclude —  Knowing my safety , then , and their foul errors ,  Have I not cause to laugh ? Yes , in abundance .  Now note my plot , the height of my invention  I have already given out to some ,  That I have certain knowledge you are dead ,  And have had private burial in the countrey ;  At which my shame , not grief , forbad my presence :  Yet some way to make known unto the world  A husbands duty , I resolve to make  A certain kind of feast , which shall advance  My joy above the reach of spight or chance .  To morrow night expires your limited moneth  Of vow'd virginity ; It shall be such a night ;  In which I mean thy beauty shall break forth  And dazle with amazement even to death  Those my malicious enemies , that rejoyc'd  In thy suppos'd escape , and my vexation .  I will envite 'hem all to such a feast  As shall fetch blushes from the boldest guest ;  I have the first course ready —  Away , some body comes ; I guess of them  That have jeer'd me , whom I must jeer again .  Gallants y' are welcom . I was sending for ye .  What may that be ?  Of yours , my Masters ?  You know all these were forfeited long since ,  Yet I 'le come roundly to you , Gentlemen .  Ha' you brought my moneys , and my interest ?  But have you Offices to sell , good Sirs .  As how , I pray you .  You are the merriest mates that ere I cop'd withal .  But to be serious Gentlemen , I am satisfied  Concerning my lost Wife . She has made even  With me and all the World .  Dead , Dead : And therefore as men use to mourn  For kind and loving wives , and call their friends  Their choicest friends unto a solemn banquet  Serv'd out with sighs and sadness , while the widowers  Blubber , and bath in tears ( which they do seem  To wring out of their fingers ends and noses )  And after all the demure ceremony .  Are subject to be thought dissemblers , I  ( To avoid the scandal of Hypocresie ,  Because 't is plain she lov'd me not ) invite  You and your like that lov'd her and not me ,  To see me in the pride of my rejoycings ,  You shall find entertainment worth your company ,  And that let me intreat to morrow night .  Yes gallants : fail not , as you wish to view  Your mortgages and pawns again . Adieu .  Wher 's my hidden beauty ?  That shall this night be glorious .  T is at hand .  So are my guests . See some of 'em are enter'd .  O my blith friend , Master Nathaniel , welcome .  And Master Arthur Meanwell as I take it .  Stay Catelina . Nay , she may be seen .  For know , Sirs , I am mortified to beauty  Since my wives death . I will not keep a face  Better then this under my roof I ha' sworn .  T is done and past , Sir .  I le hear of none , nor you if you speak so .  Come hither Catelyna . You shall see , Sir ,  What a brave wench she shall be made anon  And when she dances how you shall admire her .  Yes I have borrowed other Moors of Merchants  That trade in Barbary , whence I had mine own here ,  And you shall see their way and skill in dancing .  Here take this key , t will lead thee to those ornaments  That deck'd thy mistress lately . Use her casket ,  And with the sparklingst of her jewels shine ;  Flame like a midnight beacon with that face ,  Or a pitch'd ship a fire ; the streamers glowing  And the keel mourning , ( how I shall rejoyce  At these prepostrous splendours ) get thee glorious ;  Be like a running fire-work in my house .  I muse the rest of my invited Gallants  Come not away .  She is not dead , Sir . But take you no notice  You shall have instantly an entertainment , that  Shall fill you all with wonder .  Enter the house pray Gentlemen : I am ready  Now with your entertainment .  Now to our Revels . Sit ye , sit ye gallants  Whilst , Uncle , you shall see how I 'le requite  The masque they lent me on my wedding night .  T was but lent Gentlemen , your masque of horns ,  And all the private jears and publick scorns  Y'have cast upon me since . Now you shall see  How I le return them ; and remarried be .  Brave impudent rogue . He made the speeches last year  Before my Lord Marquess of Fleet Conduit .  Now mark my Jeeres .  Your jeers are answer'd , gallants . Now your dance .  With all my heart , sir .  O ougly ! call you this dauncing ; ha , ha , ha .  How now .  What are you men or devils ?  Hold thy peace .  I know thee not , not I .  I plac't no childe in Norfolk nor Suffolk nor any  Folk I — say thou mistookst me : I le reward thee . Go .  Get you out of my house .  My child ! Am I his father ? Darst thou speak it .  How should I get him . I was never married till this moneth .  Well , Gentlemen , to take your wonder off ,  I will lay truth before you .  For a poor servant that I had , I undertook and paid  For keeping of an ideot .  Even he .  'T is like this is the child . But for a certain sum  Which I did pay , 't was articled , that I should nere be  Troubled with it more .  Wretch that I was to put away that fellow !  But stay ! where is my wife ? my wife , my wife —  My Moor I would say . Which way went my Moor ?  Mischief on mischief ! worse and worse I fear .  I must have wits and fits , my fancies and fegaries .  Undone , most wretched . O , I am confounded .  I see no art can keep a woman honest .  O Ruine , ruine , ruine —  She is my wife , Gentlemen .  I say my lawful wife ; your Neece ; and so disguis'd  By me on purpose .  I 'le be divorc'd before a Court in publique .  Oh —  Oh — oh — oh — o —  Oh o — Buz . Hay toodle loodle , &c.   She lives , and is that strumpet ,  From whom I sue to be divorc'd .  That same is she , and all the wives I had  That black is but an artificial tincture  Laid by my jealousie upon her face .  Then if her shame ,  And my firm truth appear not , punish me .  Before you all , I le forfeit my estate  If ere I re-accept her .  My chains , and Jewels , worth a thousand pounds ,  I 'le pay it for my folly .  Hah —  I am confounded here . Where is my Wife ?  I am at my joys end , and my wits together .  I have snar'd my self exceeding cunningly ;  That quean there knows .  See , see , the heaven that I am justly fallen from ,  O may I yet find favour .  I utterly deny 't upon my oath .  My grief and shame is endless .  I 'le cancel both your mortgages .  O Buzzard , Buzzard , Buzzard .  How couldst thou use me thus ?  Well fare a misery of a mans own seeking ;  A tough one too will hold him tack to 's end ,  This comes with wiving at threescore and three ;  Would doating fools were all serv'd so for me .  I yeeld to fortune with an humble knee ,  If you be pleas'd , your pleasure shall please me . 