 That Heaven might ha' pleased  T' have fashion'd her out to have been a Queen .  And are not you my Mother ?  She was my mother when she was your wife ;  And that 's so late , I cannot yet forget it .  But I fear to offend .  My Royal and dread Father .  I beseech your Highness ,  If any alteration in my looks  Be found , or read , let it as well be construed ,  It grows but from a filial fear t' offend .  I have forgot I had another Mother :  And humbly at the Feet of this I honour ,  I beg her Ayd , to win your Favour towards me .  Most gracious Madam , if you knew the Truth ,  The fair sincerity I bear in Duty  Towards your Highness —  The principal i' th' World : For that you have  My Fathers Love ; and but to Wrong or Grieve you ,  Were Stripes or Wounds to his Affection .  So much of my late Mother I remember ,  To yield a Reverence to his Contentment , and shall for ever .  My dread Lord .  It is most true , I did .  Gracious Heaven forbid it .  First on my knees let me implore your Royal Pardon .  My end was noble : as I thought , well suiting  The Honour of a Prince : I would have search'd  Into the secrets of his heart by questions ,  VVhether he had intended or conceived  Treason against your Highness , as it is  Presum'd he did : for which he was committed .  Still relying on your Pardon , I had thought  T' have won confession of it from himself .  I had then  Concluded there had been a Probabilitie  Of my poor mothers falsehood : yet I would have put  That Question to him next .  Then had I sav'd  Your Laws a needless labour in his death ;  And with the same hand made that mother childless ,  That by her folly forfeited her Husband .  All had then been nothing  But a Scandal to my mother and himself :  So good a Souldier would not be a lyer  To save an abject life .  You are my King , would I could say , my Father .  O do not so interpret , Royal Sir .  My King , and Father .  Great Sir , your mercy .  My Lord , you are too severe .  Thrice-gracious Mother ,  I thank Petruccio , who preserv'd my life ,  For nothing more , then this one minutes Bliss ,  In which I find your Blessing in a kiss .  I thank you Lodovico .  If you my Royal Father be not displeas'd  With me , or my good mother , I shall live . 