 I know not : I fear some rude company , some of the wild crew are broke into the house .  O me 't is so : Hell 's broke loose ; this comes of your new fingle-fangle fashion , your prepostrous Italian way forsooth : would I could have kept my old way of pots and pipes , and my Strong-water course for customers : The very first twang of your fiddle guts has broke all , and conjur'd a legion of devils among us .  What shall I do ? Dam . Out alass ; sure they are devils indeed .  Peace ye roaring Scabs : I 'le be sworn she supt at Paris Tavern last night , and lay not long ago at the Venice by Whitefryers Dock .  A civil Gentlewoman you see she is .  Nor none are like to have here , I assure you .  O Nick , I am not in the humour , no more is she to be o' the merry pin now ; I am sure her case is too lamentable . But if you will all sit down , I 'le give you a bottle of wine , and we 'l relate her story to you , so you will be civil . Nic Well for once , I care not if we be .  Let us set to 't then ; sit down brother Toney , sit down Gentlewoman , we shall know your name anon , I hope it will fall in your story ; sit down Clotpoll .  This Gentlewoman whose name is Damyris .  Well mad Nick , I 'le pledge thee in hope to see as many flutter about the tree , that thou shalt clime backwards .  These are our ordinary complements , we wish no harm .  But your Father Nick . — Is he that Rookesbill . —  I would but have asked you whether your Father were that Rookesbill that is call'd the great Builder .  And so we shall have a foul house .  Why so sad on the suddain Niece .  He never breaks a promise with any of us ' though he fail all the honest part o' the world : But I trust you are not taken with the Ruffian , you 'll nere get penny by him .  How 's that ? I hope you jest .  You will not hinder the house , I hope . Marry heigh . This were a humour and 't would last . Go fetch him up .  What 's the matter ? have I got a mad woman into the house . What do you go about to break me the first day of your coming , before you have hansell'd a Couch or a Bedside in 't . Were you but now all o' th heigh to set your self out for a signe with your fiddle cum twang , and promise such wonders , forsooth , and will not now be seen . Pray what 's the Riddle .  Well , I 'le dismisse the Gallant , and send you , Sirrah , for another wench . I 'le have Besse Bufflehead again . This kicksy wincy wincy Giddibrain will spoil all I 'le no more Italian tricks . —  Thus some have by the phrensie of despair  Fumously run into the sea to throw  Their wretched bodies , but when come near  They saw the billows rise , heard Boreas blow ,  And horrid death appearing on the Maine ,  A sudden fear hath sent them back again .  What 's here to do ? do you think I am a devil ? that you make such conjurations over me .  Here 's a stirre about nothing . I know nothing by her , not I . Nor whether she has any thing or nothing , that a woman should have by the report of knowledge of man , woman or beast , not I . She came to me but this morning , with a purpose to set me up in my new house as I hoped . But she has taken a course to make it honestly spoken of already , to my utter undoing , but she never comes within my doors again , as I hope to thrive by my Trade hereafter .  Upon the very first fight of the very first man that came into my house , the very first houre of my setting up in it .  A shame take him , your roaring friend , Nick . I think she is enamoured of him , or of something she guesses he has ; and would faine play the honest woman with him , that never played honest man with woman in his life .  And here she comes me a hunting after him , like a fondling , whilest halfe a dozen peeces might ha' been gotten at home by this time , aud she have had the halfes of it in her purse by this time ; if she would have done , as I thought , she would have done by this time .  I sent whooping after the best guest that haunt my house , to have taken the first fruits of her conversation , and she would not see a man of 'em , to my undoing .  Yes , I shall get a good name shortly , and this geare hold , and turn begger , I shall .  Bawds did he say ? how comes he to know me troe ?  Assuredly , we are no prophane wine-bibbers , not we .  Truly , you speak most edifyingly .  Best drink again then , Sir .  Of that or any thing sir , pray drink again , sir .  Now he has bang'd the Pitcher , he may do any thing .  Come Wenches , if he venture in his fathers sight , shame take us and we blush .  But that you are his father , sit , and an old man , and he an honest young Gentleman , and our friend , we would tell you .  Foure truly , sir .  What 's that to me or thee ? come to the point .  Never had any , Sir .  Before all men i' th' world by your fair leave , 1.   Without your free consent , I will not .  If I but 'scape Bridewell , I care not .  With all my heart , and say Amen to the marriage .  O good your worship , as you came of a woman . 