 Lov'd , my deare heart , my sweetest , my very being , will you needs take your journey ? I shall fall before your return into a Consumption . If you die but conceive what your departure will bring upon me , I know ( my sweet ) nay I do know — but goe your ways ; strike my finger into mine eye : 'T is not the first true teare a married woman has shed .  Nay , goe I beseech you ; you shall never say , I undid you . Goe I pray : But never look to see me my owne woman again . How long will you stay forth ?  Well , a fortnight at the least . Never woman took a more heavy departure . Kisse me . Farewel . Kiss me againe . I pray does your Horse amble , or trot ? Do not ride post as you come home , I pray . Kisse me once more . Farewell .  Hay hoe ! How I do gape .  Past three forsooth .  T is past sleeping time then , Bridget .  That 's true and tryed . Go lay my Pillow Bridget .  Exit Brid .   Lord , what a thing a woman is in her Husbands absence !  Wast thou ever in love , Jeremy ?  I forsooth , and no forsooth ? then I perceive you are forsooth . But I advise you to take head , how you levell your Affection towards me : I am your Mistris ; And I hope you never heard of any Apprentice was so bold with his Mistris .  Nay , be not sorry neither Jeremy . Is thy Master gone ? Look . A pretty youth , this same Jeremy ! And is come of a good Race . I have heard my Mother say , his Father was a Ferretter —  Come hither Jeremy . Dost thou see this Handkerchief ?  I vow'd this Handkerchief should never touch any bodies face , but such a one , as I would intreat to lie with me .  Come hither Jeremy . There 's a spot o' thy Cheek , let me wipe it off .  Heaven made this Boy of a very honest Appetite , sober Ignorance , and modest Understanding . My old Grandmothers Latine is verified upon him ; Ars non habet Inimicum praeter Ignorantem . Ignorance is womans greatest Enemy . Who 's within ? Bridget .  Go your wayes to Mistresse Parmisan , the Cheesmongers Wife in old Fishstreet , and commend me to her ; and intreat her to pray Mistresse Collifloore the Hearb-woman in the Old Change , that she will desire Mistris Piccadell in Bow-lane , in any hand to beseech the good old dry Nurse mother , Et cetera , shee knowes where , to provide me an honest , handsome , secret young man ; that can write , and read written hand . Take your errand with you ; that can write and read written hand .  So , now will I meditate , take a nap , and dreame out a few fancies .  Bridget .  Bridget , I say .  That 's comfortably spoken ! Nay blush not :  We women can never have too much given us . And  Madame , Josina would sound well .  No ; not Crasie ; hang Crasie : Crasie is my Husbands name . I wonder why Women must be called by their Husbands names , I .  And why not men by their Wives ?  Is a married Man but halfe a Man ? what is his other halfe then ?  Heark , some body knocks ; goe see . What should any body knock at my Garden door for ? I doe not use to be visited in my Garden .  I 'le converse with no Gentleman . What have I to do with Gentlemen ?  Is he so ? I 'le speak with no modest Gentleman . You were best be his Bawd . But are you sure he is a true Gentleman ? does he weare clean Linnen , and lack Money ?  He is very confident , and forward , me thinks .  You may speak lowder Sir : for I assure you , my Mayd is very thick of hearing , and exceeding weake sighted .  I thank you Sir . How should I stile you , pray ?  I protest you speak very farre within me ; I respect you most affectionatly .  Entertain me with pleasure ? what pleasure I pray you ?  Well , for kissing and so forth , I care not ; But look for no dishonesty at my hands , I charge you .  And honest , I beseech you : And secret , and resolute , I advise you .  And very chast I command you . But a kisse , and so forth .  And this of mine . — The thought of me rest with you . And heare you Doctor ; I prithee procure me some young Fellow , that can write : For I am so troubled with Letters , that I neither read nor answer —  I marry , Close ! Pray let me have him . Kisse and adiew .  Where are you Mr. Sarpego , with the Will .  That 's my Doctor was with me to day   I shall embrace it .  You forget the young man , that can Dance Write , and keep Counsell .  T is a rare fellow !  Now they are gone , I prethee M. Footwell stay a little , I will fetch thee some Letters to read for me , which I have not open'd yet , because I durst trust no body . —  I le send them both , that 's sure .  Now , prethee speak ; what 's their answer ?  Both Footwell : I prethee how ?  Which , I prethee ? Sir Andrew ?  Out you Pispot-caster .  You Glister-pipe , thinkst to dishonest me ?  A stincking saucy Rascall thou art , take this remembrance .  Trust me Sister , as long as it is done in private , in ones own House , and for some few selected Gentlemens pleasure ; Me-thinks the part is not altogether the displeasingst . 