 Will you not go in and dine , Sir ?  The whole company expects you .  Alas my good Master .  My mistriss , and your Mother Sir ,  Intreats you to come to dinner .  Sir , shall I say you 'l come ?  What shall I say ?  Alas you know , this dinner was appointed  A friendly meeting for most of your Creditors ,  And many of your Debtors .  None but some priviledg'd Courtiers , that dare  Put in at all mens Tables . They 're all set ,  Your Creditors on one side , and your Debtors  On t'other ; and do only stay for you .  I feare , Sir , you will overthrow the good  That was intended you . You know this meeting  Was for the Creditors to give longer day ,  As they should find your Debtors to acknowledg  The summes they owe you . Sir I should be sorry  To see you sinck , or forc'd to hide your head ,  That look'd as high , as any in the City .  Introth I pity him —  O , Sir , you are undone .  Alas your Mother Sir —  Her mischievous tongue has over-thrown the good  Was meant to you .  Your Creditors were on a resolution  To do you good , and madly she oppos'd it ,  And with a vehement voyce proclaims you a Beggar ;  Says , you have undone her Daughter ; that no good  Is fit to be done for you : And such a storm  Of wicked breath —  No Sir , 't is nothing but her old disease ,  The Tongue-ague , whose fit is now got up  To such a height , the Devil cannot lay it .  The learned School-master , Mr. Sarpego  Has conjur'd it by all his parts of speech ,  His Tropes and Figures ; and cannot be heard  I' th furious Tempest . All your Creditors  Are gone in Rage ; will take their course , they say .  Some of your Debtors stay , I think , to laugh at her .  Who I forsooth ? No forsooth .  No indeed forsooth . I should be sorry there should be any such .  He is gone forsooth .  Yes forsooth .  Indeed forsooth !  O Lord forsooth . I 'le go wash it .  Honest Sir . Get up your Debts as fast as you can abroad : For on my understanding ( which great Iove knowes is but little ) shee will take up more then your due at home easily .  Yes Sir , t is common .  Introth I was faine to make my selfe an Asse , or else I had been tempted to have been a knave .  If it be in the power of my poore Sconce .  Farewell Master . And if I put tricks upon some of them , let the end of the Comedie demonstrate . 