 Thanks my good Lords , I am prepar'd to meet it .  How neer 's the King ?  Welcome that happy word that leads the way ,  But yet he is not come , he is not here :  Never so sweet an expectation  Appear'd so tedious : pray set on apace ,  That I may live yet to an interview  With my lov'd honour'd Lord .  Be it so .  But mention not his dangers , good my Lord .  Well , well my Lord , deliver 't your own way .  But what of him now in the battail ?  You seem my Lord to honour Sforza yet  Before the King .  Prithee no more .  I dare not hear it , yet .  That I like well .  That 's more than I can speak :  For should I bring comparisons of the Spring ,  After a Frosty winter to the Birds ,  Or rich returns of ventures to the Merchant ,  After the twentieth currant news of Shipwrack ,  Redemption from captivity , or the Joyes  Women conceive after most painful Childbirths ,  All were but Fabulous nothings to the Bliss  Your presence brings in answer to my Prayers :  Heaven heard me at the full : when I forget  To send due praises thither , let me die  Most wretched , though my gratitude shall never  Sleep to th' inferior means , e'en to the meanest  Souldier assistant to your safe return ,  Especially to you good Sforza , Noble Souldier ,  I heard of your fidelitie .  What says my Lord ?  He brought her o'er a Childe with me , when happily I came your Bride , bred her at home , she never saw the Court , till now I sent for her to be some comfort in your long absence .  And trust me Sir , Her simple Countrey Innocence at first  Bred such delight in me , with such affection ,  That I have call'd her Daughter , to embolden her .  And now she has got some spirit ,  A prettie lively spirit , which becomes her  Methinks so like her Fathers .  What was that she said  To you Conzago ?  I shall in all obey you .  Lodovico ,  I do , and must no less submit my self  To the Kings soveraign will then you : and though  I am committed to your house and custody ,  I am his Highness Prisoner : and more ,  Though I know not my crime , unless it be  My due Obedience , I am still so far  From grudging at his pleasure , as I fear  To ask you what it is suppos'd to be ;  But rather wait th' Event , which though it bring  My Death , 't is welcom from my Lord and King .  Yet thus much , good my Lord , vvithout offence ;  Let me demand , Is Sforza still close Prisoner ?  I will not ask his Trespass neither , it  Sufficeth it is the Kings high pleasure . But Alinda ,  Sforza's fair Daughter , what becomes of her ?  Poor vertuous Maid , is she thrown out of Favour  Because I lov'd her too ?  What do you weep ? nay then all is not well  With her , I fear .  I may not understand thee , Lodovico :  I 'll still retain the duty of a wife ,  Which though it be rejected , shall not throw  Me from the path a Subject ought to go .  Horatio with him too , are they such Friends ?  I must ? see , Lodovico , here 's a plain -  Dealing Lord , that knows , my Love and my  Obedience to the King , and warnes me  Faithfully to observe it : good my Lord ,  I will obey the Kings Command in you :  Lay 't on me . What must I do ?  He is a Traytor to the King and Me ,  That dares accuse me of Disloyaltie .  Patience assist me , and controul my Passion .  The greatest Crime that ever I committed  Against my Soveraign , was , To be so neer  The Vice of Anger in the presence of  One that he lov'd so well ; but pray your Pardon ,  Though truly those sharp-pointed words drew Blood  From my oppressed heart : and though you love me not ,  I hope you think me innocent .  You do .  My Lord , you ever lov'd me , can you think ?  VVhat means this unknown Language ?  VVhat must I answer ? I know not yet your meaning .  I must submit me to it , and its Laws ;  But to a higher Judge refer my Cause .  My thanks unto you all , that do obey  So vvell vvith one consent your Soveraign Lord .  And sacred Sir , thus low , as it becomes me ,  Let your poor Hand-maid beg , that you incline  A patient Ear to this my last Petition :  That as you cast me off , as an offence ,  You will be pleas'd to think me not offended ,  But pleas'd in all I suffer : for , Heaven knows ,  I am as free from any Passion  Of Anger , Hate , Repining or Distaste ,  Nay , as insensible of Grief or Sorrow ,  Or whatsoever Anguish of the Minde ,  As I was capable , for ought I know ,  Of Joy or Bliss the first hour I was born .  Never made happy till I was your Bride ,  In which blest state I cannot but remain ,  While you are pleas'd , and I obey your will ,  Though unto Death , to Banishment or Prison .  Poverty is Blessedness , in vvhich I 'll pray  For pardon of the Sins of my Accusers ,  And those that have suborn'd them .  So in the blest continuance of your Dayes ,  I shall pray Heaven to smile on all your VVayes .  You wrong your Princely Dignity :  Turn to the King your Father , kneel to him .  I must and can forget what I have been ;  So must not you : your Mother was a Queen .  My present fortune claims no Title in you .  Hurt not your own , by looking down on me .  This I will do as warranted by safetie ,  Not as a Mother , but Beadswoman , pray  For all that bliss on you a Mother may ,  Good Sir , observe the King before his wrath .  Take hold upon you for regarding me .  O let me lead your voyces . Long live  Gonzago and Alinda , King and Queen of Sicily .  My Lord the Prince , pray let your voyce be next ;  The rest will follow . Why speak you not , my Lord ?  O shew it in your Duty then , young Prince :  'T is true , the Law of Nature wills a Son  To be a partner in his Mothers woe ;  But Laws above that lay a strong command  On Sons to obey the Edicts of their Fathers .  A Fathers frownes are Comets threatning ruine .  Let all your thoughts be free from his offence :  The most Heaven seeks , is our obedience .  In all obey the King ; think not of me :  I am no more , nay not so much to you  As is the Begger whom you may relieve ,  Since of all these comforts I am depos'd .  Or if you needs will think I am your mother ,  Let it be onely in the charge I give you ,  That since Alinda bless'd by providence  Must be invested with the Regal Crown ,  You shew her that obedience befits a Queen ,  And your dread Fathers Wife .  He does not , shall not , Royal Sir .  Onely I beg that I may take my leave .  The wishes a true Subject ought to send  From the most humble heart up to the Throne  Of sacred Majesty , I equally divide  To you my King and Queen ,  Professing by the Powers you present ,  I part as well content with my condition ,  Since it is your command , as ere I was to sit in that Promotion .  Pardon me , mighty Lady , I am as far  From daring to do so , as from a Queen .  And whilst you love the King , and he is pleas'd ,  I shall no less obey you , then I lov'd you  VVhen I sent for you to the Court , and there into  this heart received you .  TUrn'd out of all , and cast into the world ;  And that forbidden too to pitie me ?  No sucour , no relief to be afforded ?  Heaven still is where it was , and cannot lose  The Providence it ever had : let those  That think me wretched now , consider that ,  And be with me converted to a Faith  That will proclaim us happy . What 's my loss ?  VVhat was the State and glory of a Court ,  But steps and lights through dangerous Ambition ,  To ends beyond our selves , in whose atchievements ,  VVe make our selves but nothing to ourselves .  And all that we are then , is to the world ,  VVhich renders us great Titles : which tane off ,  VVe then return unto our selves again ,  And all the world is ours : I was not great  Till now ; nor could I confidently say  Any thing was mine own , till I had nothing .  They do but sleep , that live in highest Pompe ;  And all their happiness is but a dream ,  VVhen mine is reall : nay , nay , I can prove it .  Their costly fare breeds riot , mine content :  Their rich Attire is but mere Pageantry ,  Made to please their eyes : mine keeps me warm ,  And healthful , when a cold becomes their sickness .  They boast of Honour and Gentilitie ,  For their Attendants then , when the chief Honour  Of the best woman , meek obedience ,  Is my own handmaid ; and my Patience  A sweeter servant than Gentilitie ,  Continually my other : for Councel and defence , what have I now ?  They have the helps of worldly wise mens brains ,  And I the comforts of my fruitfull Prayers .  They have tall big-bon'd servants for defence :  I the strongst guard of all , mine innocence .  What Musick had the Court compar'd to this ,  Or what comparison can all their sports  And Revells hold with those of Kids and Fawnes ,  And frisking Lambs upon the countrey lawnes ?  VVhich are my hourly pleasant entertainments  In all my wanderings : in which I have not  Hunger'd at any time , but I have found  Meat which I duely earn'd : nor ever thirsted ,  But I have found a Spring that has refresh'd me .  And am no sooner weary , then I finde  A shelter or a shade to rest me in :  As now , in which a slumber 'gins to creep  Over mine Eyes , more soft then any sleep ,  Could these my Senses when I lay of late  On Down , beneath the Canopy of State .  What soft ? what sweet ? what heavenly Trance was this ?  I feel my self inspir'd with holy Flame  Above the heat of Mortals : sure I have  The Spirit of Prophecie , the Gift of Healing ,  And Art of teaching hidden Mysteries .  Thanks Heaven , that first didst send me Patience  To sweeten my Afflictions , and now  Plentiful means to live , for others Good .  Who live but for themselves , are but for show ,  And stand like barren Trees , where good might grow .  It is good Lodovico , though disguis'd ,  I can no less then know him : and the poor Fool  That was my Servant : they come to relieve me  In these disguises , that I might not know  From whom I receiv'd Comfort .  What Traytor art thou , that presents me Poyson ?  Is it not Poyson to a loyal heart ,  To eat contrary to the Kings Command ?  VVhy will ye urge so much against your conscience ?  Have you not heard of my banishment , and the Kings Edict ,  Proclaiming all men Traytors that relieve me ?  Yes good Dissembler , you do know 't , and you ;  As sure as I know you for Lodovico ,  And you , Sir , for Andrea : Can it be ,  That you that have been loyal Subjects , should  Now go about to forfeit thus your Lives ?  Fear not you me , pray Sir , nor neglect the care  That 's due unto your selves , to injure me .  Do not I hear and see you ? I am not safe  In my obedience unto the King ,  To hold such conference with you that would  So violate his Laws : but let it warn ye  Off of this course ; for I 'll appeal to Justice  If you persist in this Rebellion .  Much good may it do thee .  See , here come poor Folks , that perhaps do want  That which superfluously thou hast devour'd .  What is the Cause of these sad Cries , good People ?  What is that woful part o' th' Country call'd ,  That suffers this Calamitie ? and how  Did the Inhabitants there stand affected  To Goodness or Religion ?  There will I .  Take up my Habitation .  Mark me , good Lodovico , note my Reasons :  This poor afflicted Province was my Dowry :  And the o'er-hasty judging world will say ,  According to the Censure pass'd on me ,  My Trespass drew this Evil on the Land .  Do any die ?  And whither now do you intend your travail with your griefs ?  Hear now what he will say )  Did not I tell you ?  Why then you think me guiltie , Lodovico .  Was that your Priests opinion and advice ?  'T was everso ; Priests are but Apes to Kings ,  And prostitute Religion to their ends .  Might you not judge as well , it was th' injustice and the wrongs the innocent Queen hath suffer'd , that has brought sense of her injuries upon her Province ? And that if she had died , her Dowrie here with her had also suffered Death ? to make it nothing to the King , as he made her .  Lodovico , peace : where is thy pain good man ?  Bless'd Providence assist me whilst with Prayers I use the gift thou gav'st me for the cure of these afflicted People . Give me thine hand : what feelst thou now ?  Joyn that hand to thy other , and thank Heaven then  That made thee whole .  Beware Idolatry , and onely send  All praise to th' power whose mercy hath no end .  Onely do this for me : inform the rest  How you have sped , and win them back again ,  To the next village : bid them be of chear ,  Whilst I make Holy Prayers for their help .  I le come and live among you for my hire ,  Which shall be cheap , believe me .  I will but take my next competent meal .  I hope this will be thought but valuable .  Go back I say with your sad company ,  And comfort them with news of your success ,  And a full hope of cure to every one  That 's Partner in this sad Affliction .  I le tell you , Lodovico : the poor Fellow  Is gone to taste the Countrey Air for me ,  Lest I might be infected : you shall see  Straight how he speeds .  How now , Andrea ?  What 's the matter man ?  Thy tongue 's not out a joynt .  This came of tempting Providence : were not you  Told the danger by the many that smarted of it ?  And now you repent you meant me so much good .  VVell Sir , give me your hands : stand up .  Now , how do you feel your self ?  Yes you shall venter Sir ; and by the way ,  I le teach you to teach them to work and pray .  What can they take from us ?  Fear not , Lodovico : why look ye Friends , so amazedly ? ha' ye lost your way ? or what do ye seek ?  You will not murder me ?  Just Heaven protect me .  I am that hapless she , that for relief will not beg , nor borrow , nor take of yee .  For my part I le forgive them , if they will  Deliver truely who corrupted them ,  To rid the world of this weary burden ; that I may pray for them .  But first tell me : Are not you two the men that gave false evidence at my Arraignment touching injur'd Sforza ?  Mention not that .  Y' Are welcome Friends , your prayers and good wishes  Are comforts to me , yet without danger of the Proclamation .  Be you as confident , I will not wrong  A man among you : therefore pray reserve  What is your own , and warrant your own safety .  But I have other Arts : sufficient skill  In works of several kinds , the Needle , Loome ,  The Wheel , the Frame , the Net-Pin : and choice of  Fingers works are most familiar with me .  Yes , and teach all your children works to live on .  The which , together with my own labour ,  May bring sufficient for my maintenance :  Without the idle help of Begging , Borrowing ,  Or any way infringing the Kings Command .  Something I have in Book , to help their knowledge ,  And by practise give them literature .  Then when these serious works and studies toil us ,  For Recreation , yet with equal skil ,  VVee 'l practice divers Instruments , Songs and measures ,  That shall invite the Powers above to smile  On the content of which we them beguile .  Yes gentle Friends , and with asmuch content  As ere I found in height of Government .  Why seem you so distracted ?  Alas what is the matter ?  Pray speak , what chance has happened ?  O let us flie to rescue them .  Alas , what mean you neighbours ? would you now  For all my labours and my Prayers for you ,  Blast me with curses of expiring men ?  What trespass have I done you , that for me  You put these men to death against my will ?  No , I condemn their faults , and blame their lives ;  But have nor Power nor will to judge the men :  You have the will ; but to assume the Power ,  You take the Kings Right from him : you transgresse  As much his Laws in spilling of their blood ,  As they had done in mine , had they prevail'd .  I know they will  When they consider the most dangerous sin ,  That threw them on their desperate Attempt ,  And their escape from merited Punishment ,  They cannot be so graceless , not to turn  To a reformed life : First know , yong men ,  Your former Act 'gainst me an Innocent ,  Was Perjurie by which I fell , yet flourish .  Consider there how black and fowl your Sin  Is rendred by my Chrystal innocence :  Your next Attempt against me , was blacker , Murder ,  The very word sounds horror .  This is serious .  So , enough :  I le take your words .  Never enough in contemplation of my Happiness .  VVas ever comfort in the Court like this ?  This Homage fits not me .  You go about to cast away your lives :  In serving or in succouring me , you fall  Into Rebellion against the King .  Y'  are Traytors All .  How dare you call me so ?  VVhat , and the King alive ?  I tremble but to hear you ,  And will not live an hour amongst you more  But with this freedom , To use my fair obedience to the King .  O let that Title die with my late Fortune :  Remember it no more , but let me be  As one of you ; nay rather , an Inferior ,  Or I from this abiding must remove :  Of which I first made choice in truth for love .  Take heed good neighbours ,  Beware how you give Dignitie or Title ; therein you may transgress .  'T is then the Greatness of  The Person dignifies the Titles , not it the Person .  We go fairly on .  [ Enter 1.  Girl . ]  look you Sir ,  Here 's one that knew no letter in the Book  Within these ten days , can read hitherto ,  And waits for a new lesson : proceed hither —  And at your hour I le hear you .  Good Girl , well said : nay , nay , hold up your head : so , so , 't is very well : let 's see your Samplar :  what an hearts ease is here ! Lod. Right in its perfect Colours .  Nay shee 'l do well : now take me out this Flower . Keep your work clean , and you shall be a good Maid .  Enter 3.  Girl .  Now where 's your writing book ?  No child , you must not Joyn-hand yet : you must your letters and your minums better first . Take heed , you may Joyn-hand too soon , and so mar all : still youth desires to be too forward . Go take your Lute , and let me hear you sing the last I taught you .  How divine Justice throwes my Enemies into my hands ? what are your griefes ?  Pray Sir be you silent .  And where 's your pain ?  Because your Blow cannot be safely given here , you think .  O sinful wretch ! thou hadst no pain till now ;  Nor was she dumb till divine Providence  Now at this instant struck her . It is now  Just as thou saist : and justly are you punished  For treacherous counterfeits . Lodowick search his hand .  Now take off his false Beard : see if you know him ,  And let the woman be unmuffled .  Pray take 'm hence , their time 's not come for cure yet .  You shall lose me , if you do any violence to any of 'em : but let 'm be lodg'd with those we took to day : I le feed 'em all .  Pray do as I intreat .  Do you no harm , and fear none : send your Children .  VVe live secure in spight of Foes : and see ,  Where Heaven protects , in vain is Treacherie :  VVho says our State is low , or that I fell  When I was put from Court ? I did not rise  Till then , nor was advanc'd till now . I see  Heaven plants me 'bove the reach of Treachery .  No Superscription , nor any names unto it . Most Royal and most wronged Soveraign Mistress : ( that must needs be me . ) Be happily assured your Restauration is at hand ; And by no less means then by her Death that usurps your Dignitie : ( a plain conspiracie against Alinda in my behalf . ) All shall be determined at Nicosia , by  Your Loyal Servants .  Nameless .  You know not the contents then , and are bound by Oath you say not to reveal the senders of this Letter .  Heaven ! can it be , that men in my respect can plunge into such danger ?  You are no messenger of such ill Tidings  To part so slightly : indeed you shall not .  Then I must say , you shall stay : or I le send  A cry as loud as Treason after you .  No-violence good Friends : but if you will detain him  Till I give order for his libertie ,  You do the State good service .  Me most of all .  I thank thee Providence , I dreamed not of such ready help .  I am struck through with wonder at this Letter :  I could not at the first but think 't a Bayt  To catch my willingness to such an Act ;  Or Gullerie to mock my Hopes or wishes ,  In case I had such : therefore I desired  The Messengers restraint from being my Relator :  But now a strong Belief possesses me ,  A noble Fury has stirr'd up some Friends  To this high enterprize : whereby I gather  My cause is weigh'd above , whence I shall see  How well my patience over-rules my wrong ,  And my Foes ruin'd with mine Honours safety .  But let my better Judgement weigh those thoughts ,  I do not seek revenge , why shall I suffer it ?  My causeless injuries have brought me Honour ,  And 't is her shame to hear of my mis-hap .  And if by Treachery she fall , the world  Will judge me accessarie , as I were indeed  In this foreknowledge of the foul intent ,  Should I conceal it .  Then here 's the trembling doubt which way to take :  Whether to rise by her Destruction ,  Or sink my Friends , discovering their pretence .  Friends have no Priviledge to be treacherous :  She is my Soveraignes wife , his chief content ;  Of which to rob him , were an act of horrour  Committed on himself . The question 's then ,  Whether it be more foul ingratitude  To unknown Friends , and for an act of Sin ,  Then to be treacherous to the Prince I love ?  It is resolv'd : I le once more see the Court .  O my good Patrons , I must now intreat  Means for my Journey to attend the King ,  On a discoverie for the present safetie  Of his fair Queen : she will be murder'd else .  Dear Friends , a small matter will prevent this world of dangers .  O hear me .  Good Lodovico , though I thank your care  And love to me , yet give me leave to doubt ,  That as that cruel and Ambitious woman  Hath oversway'd the Judgement of the King ,  She may pervert his Royal purposes  Of Peace and love , to your and my destruction .  Before you sent , would you had tane my Counsel .  My Gonzago ;  My Prince , I should have said .  Weep not , fair Sir .  See here 's an Inundation  Of Joys that do like waves orecome each other .  Brave , wise , and valiant Petruccio !  That couldst so happily deceive the King  By a supposed death , to save the Life  Of my sweet Boy : all that I can be sorry for ,  Is this : Alinda is Frantick .  He brings her with him : and I hope the change  Of Air , with wholsome Prayers and Physicks Art ,  In which I am not ignorant , may restore her .  The Queen is kill'd : is not that it ?  Auspicious Providence !  Patience would die , if 't were not exercis'd .  But now it rests , that we prepare to entertain our Guests .  We must to welcome them make Holy day ,  And give our Scholars leave to Feast and Play .  The Swaines you say are perfect in the Dance ;  So are my Maids : wee 'l leave it for the King .  Such as the rudeness of the Countrey yields Sir ,  Hayl to the King and Queen , and may the thanks  Which on my knees I offer at those Feet  That beautifie and bless this humble Earth  Add many years unto your happy lives .  Seem not to turn away , most gracious Madam ,  Before I shew for which I hop'd you came ,  The manner how I get a competence to live .  May it please your Highness sit , and note the Play  By which we gain when we lay work away .  The Song I taught you last .  We have varietie for all the Seasons ,  Of such poor entertainments , mighty Queen ,  To shew our much contentment in their welcome .  Nay I beseech your Majesties .  Oh let me yet entreat your Highness stay .  Mighty Sir , hear me : not to implore your Bountie ;  No not your thanks , nor Popular Applause ;  But for I am your Subject and your servant ,  Bound by your Allegiance as well to prevent  All Ills might pass against you , as to do none .  I could not think it but strict dutie in me  To hasten this discoverie .  Great Queen , vouchsafe to take an Admonition ,  My last and truest Testimonie of Love .  The rest were shadows to it .  Let your Demands be for the common good .  Not for your own respects : selflove may hurt you :  Beware Ambition , Envie , and Revenge .  More exclaimations ? what distracts you now ?  VVhat is his Name ?  VVho are the heads of the Judicious Faction ?  I hope we may come yet to stay their Sentence .  Pray bring us to the place : where if we can ,  Let us avert their Judgement from this man .  Whither away with him ?  Will ye , 'gainst all my Counsels and requests  Persist to pull destruction by taking others lives upon your own ?  And seem to carry it as in care for me ?  Have I not often councell'd and entreated  You would forbear ?  Go leave him unto me .  Release your Prisoner , set him free , and go send the rest of the confederats .  I cannot give thee death : nor will my prayers  Be prevalent for thy cure poor sinful man !  Till thou layst ope the cause of thy disease ;  ( Thy hainous sin ) by fair and free confession .  Do you confess it ?  Heaven grant you all your cures .  All was confess'd before by Fabio and Strozzo .  And you do well to seem so penitent :  I do forgive you : and will plead your pardon unto the King .  Go , and pray for grace to mend your lives .  So , let 's now to the King .  Still the most humble Handmaid  To your high Majestie .  No Passion mighty Sir ,  If I may presume of any favour , vouchsafe a glance on these .  Stay you a while .  You know my Story , Sir , and who have been  My strong abusers , and by me converced ,  Therefore let me Petition : Royal King  You have by these discovered the abuse  That led you into error : and that light ,  Which makes discovery of their black misdeeds ,  Will shew you to a Throne of greater mercy  Then you can give .  Go then , and thank the King .  My next suit is , ( for now I 'm set a begging ,  You 'l Pardon your Alinda .  Recover ? fear not , Sir , this Traunse hast drown'd  Her Frenzie , and shee 'l live a sober life .  Sir you have had but homely entertainment  Yet in my humble dwelling : now I le shew you  ( Since you appear so tender and so good  A Father ) the sweet comfort of a Son ;  Pray fetch the Prince .  Can you forgive Petrucio that deceiv'd you  In his faign'd death , to save a real life :  Bless'd Heauen ! she lives and wakes I hope in health .  Patience good Sforza , see what she will do .  As you may think I honour vertue Sforza ,  I do believe 't is really unfaigned .  Note her further . 