 Why is man  Prescrib'd on earth to imitate the Gods ,  But to come nearest them in power and action ?  That is to be a King ! That onely thought  Fills this capacious breast . A King or nothing !  What ? when Disanius ?  In whom ?  You take your time Sir to make me your mirth .  A time may come —  Yes , up to Court , to be king Stratocles fool .  Do you deal in secret king ? The Commons sent for  To their examination , and this old  Antagonist of mine cal'd to confront me ,  And I prepar'd by no intelligence  To fit me for th' incounter ? Let 'em come .  I must not be deny'd to stand as fair  In competition for the Crown as any man  The King himself elects for his successor ;  The people are mine own thro' all his parts :  He may command their knees , but I their hearts .  That makes for me .  Your grace  Forgets not then Souldiers of fresher fame .  Now think upon my service , Royal Sir .  T were good you would hear the king . The husband of  Your daughter must be elected . There you left , sir .  Envious Disanius , my merit is  Their Motive .  False , empty weathercocks .  There lives yet some hope .  A trouble Sir ? That were a time that knew me ,  A trouble to your enemies , not you ,  When this same lump of earth ( which now 's a trouble )  Stood a sole Bulwark of your Realm ; repelling  Arms of foes ; shrowding your fearful Subjects  Under my shield ; guarding your fields and Vineyards  From desolation ; your Palaces from ruine ;  And am I now a trouble ?  Peace , envy , and be thankful for thy life  Which thy tongue forfeits .  So .  You are oth sect of Cinicks , and have learn'd  To bark Philosophy .  You will out-run your priviledge of prating  And suffer for 't .  Ignorant wretch ,  That out of all thy bookish Theory  Knowes not the soul to be Aerial  And of a soaring nature ; not unlike  The noble Falcon that will never cease  To work 'bove all that tops her . The supream  Estate on earth , and next unto the Gods  Is majesty ; and that 's my present gain ,  Though I have all but that , yet wanting that  All is as none to me : And since my way  Must be upon the Ruins ( sowre Disanius )  Of thee , and of thy glories in thy Nephews  The Kings dear darlings , for whose pretious sakes  I must attend five dayes ( yet be a trouble )  I 'le travail through your bloods : Thy self has gi'n me  The quicker motion by thy timely envy .  Thou hast set spurs to the pale horse of death ,  That into dust shall trample all those lets  Which stand twixt me and the Thessalian Crown ,  Upon whose back I 'le set this Rider .  I like that compellation :  Thou stil'st me as thou wishest me , on whom  Depends thy consequent advancement , Matho .  But we but dream of soveraignty and sleep  To the Atchievement : something must be done  With waekful eyes and ready hands my Matho .  T is not yet ripe for the delivery ,  But thou shalt quickly have it . Follow me .  So , now go back my friends . There 's some reward .  Lady your tears are bootless .  Your cries as unavailable . The Gods  ( To whom your friendly foolish lovers  Have sacrific'd each other ) have given you up  To me the onely worthy of you .  Your hast to death shall not prevent my lust .  You have ods o' me .  Betray'd !  Am I become the shame and scorn of pesants .  Coward , slave ,  Thy faintness hath betray'd me .  That mercy wounds me deeper with remorse  Then all my lost designs , and their derision  Have done with indignation .  Royal King and Master ,  Mistake not so the pleasure of the Gods .  My forfeit life you have forgiven me :  Your Kingly power and grace might do it . You  Have given it freely : but I took 't with caution ,  By future service to make good your gift :  But for my forfeit love to fair Eudina ,  And my lost honor to the twin-born brothers ,  There can be no redemption , if I add  By acceptation of your bounteous offer  A second trespass , greater then the former .  In hope shee 'l plead  My pardon to your grace .  Destraction sure . 