 Nor do I seek to you  In that way which you wot on , wanton Sir ,  But to be honest , and to marry me .  You have done too much the tother way already .  There are so many  Such teachers in the world ; and so few  Reformers , that the world is grown so full  Of female frailties , the poor Harlotries  Can scarce already live by one another ,  And yet you would have me thrust in among 'em .  Should I run evil courses , you are the cause ;  And may in time , curse your own act in it :  You 'l find th' undoing of an honest Maid  Your heaviest sin upon your bed of sickness ;  T will cost your soul the deepest groan it fetches ;  And in that hope I leave you .  'T is your favour .  But love , they say sweet Mistriss , is receiv'd  At the first sight , and why not service then ,  Which often brings more absolute returns  Of the dear trust impos'd , and firmer faith  By Servants then by lovers ?  Who , I Mistriss ?  I hope I look too merrily for such a one ,  Somewhat too coursly too , to be belov'd ;  If I were sad and handsome , then it might  Be thought I were a little love sick . Pray  How long has this disease affected you ;  This melancholy , Mistriss ? Not ever since  You lost your father I hope .  There 't is . I find her .  Love , Mistriss ? yes , a Maid may take in more  Love at one look , or at a little loop-hole ,  Then all the Doddy poles in Town can purge  Out of her while she lives ; she smothring it ,  And not make known her passion . There 's the mischief !   An enemy ! Put case the case were yours .  I 'le put it to you though I miss your case .  Suppose it were your house , and Master Arthur ,  Whose father was your fathers enemy ,  Were your belov'd —  Now I have struck the vein . Suppose I say ,  All this were true ; would you confound your self  In smothering your love , which , in it self ,  Is pure and innocent , until it grow  To a pernicious disease within you ;  And hide it in your bosom , till it work  Your kindled heart to ashes ?  Yes , and religious ; most commendable ,  Could you but win his love into a marriage ,  To beget peace between your families .  How many , and what great examples have we ,  From former ages , and of later times ,  Of strong dissentions between furious factions ,  That to their opposite houses have drawn in  Eithers Allies and Friends , whole Provinces ,  Yea , Kingdoms into deadly opposition ;  Till the wide wounds on both sides have sent forth  Rivers of blood , which onely have been stop'd  By the soft bands of love in marriages  Of equal branches , sprung from the first roots  Of all those Hell-bred hatreds !  Yes , I have been a good one to my grief .  I warrant you Mistriss . Therefore out with it .  Perhaps he grieves  As much for the supposed loss of you ,  As of his Father too .  Fear nothing , Mistriss . Now you have eas'd your mind ,  Let me alone to comfort you . And see your Brother .  Much better now then when you left me Brother ,  If no ill accident has happened you  Since your departure ; as I fear there has :  Why look you else so sadly ? speak , dear Brother .  I hope you did not meet the man you hate .  If you did , speak . If you have fought and slain him ,  I charge you tell , that I may know the worst  Of fortune can befal me : I shall gain  Perhaps a death by 't .  Not for love  Of him I assure you Sir ; but of your self .  Her fear in this case , Sir , is that the Law  May take from her the comfort of her life  In taking you from her , and so she were  But a dead woman . We were speaking  Of such a danger just as you came in ;  And truly , Sir , my heart even tremble-tremble-trembles ,  To think upon it yet . Pray , Sir , resolve her .  Surely good Sir , in my opinion ,  Sharp , eager stomacks may be better fed  With a'ery smell of meat , then the bare thought  Of the most curious dainties —  A good natur'd Gentleman for all his hasty flashes .  His safety Sir ? Alas ! she means , he is  A villain that would take the honor of  His death out of your hands , if he must fall  By sword of man .  Hang him .  On what acquaintance Sir .  I 'le see you choak'd first .  O you are base , and I could claw your eyes out .  Marry he said ( help me good apron strings . )  I have it now .  It was in answer , Sir , of your objections .  First , that you fear'd the old man , wickedly ,  Would make away his wife : to which he saies ,  That is not to be fear'd , while she has so  Much fear of Heaven before her eyes . And next ,  That he would lock her up from sight of man :  To which he answers , she is so indued  With wit of woman , that were she lock'd up ,  Or had locks hung upon her , locks upon locks ;  Locks of prevention , or security :  Yet being a woman , she would have her will ;  And break those locks as easily as her Wedlock .  Lastly , for your access unto her sight ;  If you have Land he saies to sell or Mortgage ,  He 'le undertake his doors , his wife and all ,  Shall fly wide open to you ,  Yes ; I knew that : my wit else had been puzzl'd .  Yea , if you  Be Master Quick-sands Sir ; the Masters worship  Here o' the house .  'T is upon that , Sir , I would speak Sir , hoping  That you will pardon my presumptuousness ,  I am a Mother that do lack a service .  He is a knave , and like your worship , that  Dares say I am no Maid ; and for a servant  ( It ill becomes poor folks to praise themselves ,  But ) I were held a tydie one at home .  I have friends i' th' City that will pass their words  For my good bearing .  Yes indeed , Sir .  I have a Cousen that is a Retorney  Of Lyons-Inn , that will not see me wrong'd ;  And an old Aunt in Muggle-street , a Mid-wife ,  That knows what 's what as well's another woman .  At Thripperstown Sir , near the City of Norwich .  Thripping they call it , Sir .  There are but few innocents i' the countrey Sr.   They are given too much to law for that : what should  That Hulverhead be a councellor , Sir .  Truly I know none .  At an old wives house in Bow-lane  That places servants , where a maid came in  You put away to day .  Truly to speak the best and worst , forsooth ,  She said her fault deserv'd her punishment  For letting of her Mistress run away .  And that you were a very strict hard man ,  But very just in all your promises .  And such a master vvould I serve to chuse .  May I make bold to crave your ansvver , Sir ?  Prosper novv my plot ,  And hulk , thou art tvvixt vvind and vvater shot .  Or rather to meet death .  For since his traval , which is now six years ,  I never heard of him .  So is your story , Mistress unto me .  But let us dry our eyes ; and know we must not  Stick in the mire of pitty ; but with labour  Work our delivery : yours is now at hand  If you set will and brain to 't . But my honor  ( If a poor wench may speak so ) is so crack'd  Within the ring , as 't will be hardly solder'd  By any art . If on that wicked fellow ,  That struck me into such a desperate hazard .  Be sure , among the guests , that you make choise  Of the most civil one to be your convoy ,  And then let me alone to act your Mores part .  I le to my shift then .  But howa can ita be donea .  I will doa my besta .  And I the best of any man on earth .  I have sworn it ever .  I take you at your word .  Lead by the hope of justice , I am bold  To fix here fast , here to repair my ruins .  Are we not one , you know from the beginning ?  Sweet heart , my own will hold 'em .  You know we are no strangers .  'T was your own doing , to put me to my shifts .  So do I , and safely for any act .  It was but in attempt , I told my Mistriss ,  Had it been done , sure I should nere have spoke on 't .  Nothing in act I assure you .  My father — 