 News that makes all the Gallants i' the Town  Fly out o' their little wits : They are so eager ,  Upon the joy . I mean such youthful Gallants  As have , or sold , or mortgag'd ; or been cheated  By the grave patron of Arch-cosonage ,  Whose sad misfortune we are come to sing :  Shall I need to name him to thee ?  I pray thee guess again .  Worse then all this .  We bring you no comfort , we .  The beauteous Millicent .  Driven by the tempest of her Uncles will ,  Is like a pinnace forc'd against the Rock .  And take us with you . What will you go do ?  But this morning .  The business 'longs to us as much as you ,  He has wrong'd us all alike . He has cozened us  As much as you .  And see here comes a fourth man that has lost  More on her part , then we upon the Bridegrooms .  Off with it man — hang sorrow , chear thy heart .  Then try a third . That may be best of all .  Now he begins to talk .  I hope he will shew us a way , out of the bottom of his bowl to find his Mistresse .  An Idiote is it .  Note the punishments  That haunt the Miscreant for his black misdeeds ;  That his base off-spring proves a natural Ideot ;  Next that his wife , by whom he might had comfort  In progeny , though of some others getting ,  Should with her light heels make him heavie-headed  By running of her Countrey ! And lastly that  The blinded wretch should cast his servant off ,  Who was the cover of his villany ,  To shew us ( that can have no mercy on him )  The way to plague him .  What do'st laugh at ?  Could we light  Upon some quaint old fellow now , could match him  To play the clown that brings him up to town ,  Our company were full , and we were ready  To put our project into present action .  Yes , you have in mortgage  Three-score pound Land of mine inheritance .  Where a Gentleman dwelt , that knew a Scholar   That might ha' been as likely as any man in all the world .  He has some further end in 't , could we guess it ,  Then a meer merriment for his dead wives riddance .  He 'il be hang'd rather then marry again .  They shall be perfect by to morrow night .  A daunce of furies or of Blackamores  Is practising within ;  A pretty little Rogue , most richly deck'd  With pearls , chains and jewels . She is queen  Of the Nights triumph .  Thou wilt filch  Some of her jewels perhaps .  Draw me , and I le hang thee .  Pox o' your Palmistrie .  Ha' you any more jeeres to put upon us ? what are these ?  Who , your man Buzzard ?  Take heed o'th at friend : you heard him say it was his mans child .  Your jeers upon poor Gallants .  In conceit you mean .  Why roar you so ?  See the Judges  Have tane their seats , while we stand here for evidence .  Though , since in a destracted passion  He sayes she lives .  We are your friends , and pitty your afflictions .  What will you give us now and we 'le release you  For ever of this changling charge of yours ? 