 Thinke ! I see 't apparently upon your Face , and heare it in your sighes , your broken sleepes to night , when your owne groanes wak'd you , declard no lesse ;  But had I had the power of some wifes with their husbands I could have fetch'd it out of you waking once ( I thanke you ) you tooke me in your arme , but when you found 't was I you turn'd away as in a dreame .  I must not give it over till I know the cause of your melancholly fit , doe you doubt my duty , or my loyalty ? perhaps you do , and so make me the cause of your affliction .  'T is lately entertained , what e're it be ; you came heart whole to Town , and Joviall . Ha' you been drawn for security into Bonds by any of my friends , for great summs , and forc'd to pay 'em ?  Are any great friends of yours in question , attainted , imprisoned , or run away ?  Or are you further griev'd about your Nephew , Carelesse ? I thought that your friend Saveall , and my selfe had made his peace with you ; and that you had sent for him , do you repent that ?  Tell me , or I shall prove the greater trouble . I would those few examples of women , that could not keepe their husbands counsells had beene burnt , and the woman too rather then I should be distrusted thus , and slighted by a Husband —  There has beene many examples of discreet women  that have not onely kept their husbands councells , but advise and help 'em in extremities , and deliver'd 'em out of dangers .  Be you content to tell me then what troubles you . And I pray you tell mee speedily , now presently ; or ( excuse me in my vow , ) it is the last request that ever I will make to you , and the last question I 'le ever aske you , and ( the easier to get it from you ) I promise you by the continuance of my faith to you ( which by this kisse I seale ) Be it a deadly injury to my selfe , I will forgive it freely ; not be troubled at it .  You are resolv'd it seems to keepe your secret Unto your selfe , much good Sir may it doe you .  What do you but violate your Love to mee ,  Now in your most unjust suspition ?  Leave these perambulations ; to the point :  You have unlawfully lyen with some woman !  Ha , ha , ha . Here 's a businesse !  Would somebody heard you faith : nay of five hundred  That now might overheare us ( I meane not only  Gallants , but grave substantiall Gentlemen )  Could be pick'd out a twelve good men and true ,  To finde you guilty , I would then condemne you ,  But such a Jury must be pannell'd first .  Thought of your Mistris Sir , And then farwell  My jealousy , for let me tell you Sir ,  That I have had an ache upon these browes  Since your last being in Town . And since you have dealt  So faithfully as to tell me it is one ,  ( There 's no more , is there ? )  Name me the woman : if it be the same  That I suspect , I 'le never suspect more .  The same I meant ,  Y' are a faire dealing husband . On what condition ?  Come this is merry talke . Prithee on what condition ?  Only to bring good custome to her shop ,  And send her husband Venison ( flesh for flesh )  I did observe you bought all there last terme ,  And wish'd me to her Shop , and Mr. Saveall  With divers others to bestow our monies .  Troth shee 's a handsome one ; Prithee on what conditions ?  Well said .  That was ,  When you last Terme sat up all Night , and said you sat up with the three Lady Gamesters .  Faire dealing still .  A Pepper-corne a quarter , if shee be Pepperproofe .  Troth 't is unreasonable , a hundred pound a time ? How rich would Citizens be , if their wives were all so paid , and how poore the Court and Country ! But husht , here comes Mr. Saveall with your Nephew , I take it ; A handsome Gentleman , could hee be so debauch'd ?  You are the more intirely welcome Cosen .  You must not Sir be bashfull .  But now the price Mistris Saleware . I grant your Commodity is good , The Gold and Silver Laces , and the Frienges are rich , and I hope well wrought . Has your Man made a note of the particulars , and their prices , at  the rate of ready-money ( for I buy so ) and not as you would booke 'em to an under-ag'd heire , or a Court-Cavalier to expect payment two or three yeares hence ; and finde it perhaps never . I come with Here is one for tother .  Let mee see , broad plate Silver and Gold-lace , 206 Ounces halfe , and a dram , at five and ten pence the Ounce . 60 l. 5 s. 3 d. ob . 4. five and ten pence an Ounce is deare .  What a bold slut it is , well then the rest of the particulars here of Laces , and Frienges , Loopes , and Buttons , makes the sum of all an hundred pound eight shillings foure pence , halfe-penny . I am no good Arithmetician , but if any be overcast , and overpaid , you must allow restitution .  Is all put up into this Box ?  Give mee my Purse . Take you home that while I make payment for it ; your Gold-weights Mistris Saleware .  You take no Gold but what is weight I presume .  Nor shall it be your trouble , command your Servant I pray for a glasse of your beere —  That I may tell you in more privacy , what perhaps you would not have him heare : for Prentises though they are bound to keepe their Masters secrets , are not all privy to their Mistresses ; that 's more a Journeymans Office .  Not very well with my selfe , for I have gone beyond my Commission in this bargaine , and exceeded my Husbands allowance . Here 's one hundred pounds eight shillings 4 d. ob . in the Bill , and he allowes me but the bare hundred pound .  A great matter in an honest poore Countrey Ladies purse , may serve her a whole Christmas at Post and Pare , or Farthing gleeke , when the gay Gamsters wives o' the City may command the hundreds , out of the purses of such poore Ladies Husbands . But here is the odd money , eight shillings foure pence , half penny , and so all 's paid .  Doe you not understand mee then ? I 'le tell you that which I thought fit to conceale from your servant ; And from your husband too had hee been here , perhaps he knowes not on 't . My husband left with you , or lent you the last Terme a hundred pound , which hee assign'd to me ; and now I have it in Commodity . Had you forgot it , when it was to do you a good turne , when your absent husband faild you , and you wanted it .  Yes , was it not to have the free use of a hundred pound ready money , a whole quarter of a yeare , through a dead Vacation , and at last to take it out in wares ? A good turne I thinke for a Trades-woman ; take heed you do not by your fullennesse make me suspect another kind of good turne , or that you did my husband any to my injury , nor deny the receipt of his money , lest I take up a violence that will not become mee , nor you be able to beare . Be therefore well advis'd both in what you say , and who heares me . Somebody comes .  I 'le pledge you Mistris Saleware .  This was right cast , was it not friend ?  Ever upon the like occasion , Mistris Saleware , so most kindly farwell sweet Mistris Saleware .  'T is done my Coach-man does it .  One word more Mistris Saleware , can it be he ?  Not to your trouble , I perceive a young Gentleman attends for conference with you . Is not his name Fitzgerrard ?  I thought I had known him , hee is a handsome youth . I cannot blame you now with him : but beware  of old Knights that have young Ladies of their owne . Once more adieu sweet Mistris Saleware .  I hope hee 's a true convertite , did I send you to hold discourse here , Closet ?  I am beholding to him , will you goe with mee Nephew to the Exchange ? I am to buy some toyes there for the Country , you may get a fancy by 't .  Or cannot you forbeare your study so long ?  Be not at the distance of complement with mee good Nephew .  Come the Coachman grumbles at my stay , and 't will be Dinner-time presently , so the Cooke will be angry too .  Mr. Saveall a word .  Pray Mr. Saveall move you my Husband for it , I would not medle in his money matters willingly .  I am his Lordships servant .  George Carelesse , I would speak with you .  No good George , though I commend your curtesie , yet would I not you should neglect your owne dignity .  The young man , if you have modesty will thinke you mock him , if not you 'l make him become arrogant , know you not whose man he is ?  Not all Lords followers to all Knights George .  I understand you not George ; something troubles you , you are not right to day .  Come I know what perplexes you , and 't is therefore that I desire to talke with you ; I am not angry with you , but let mee tell you George , although not openly I tooke notice of the pickle you came home in last night , after your Unkle was in Bed ; to whom , mervayling at your absence I excus'd you , as gone at my request to visit some Ladies with whom you staid Supper , I told him , when you were with your Roucers .  Indeed I did , and he was satisfied .  And drunke as deeply !  Say and hold George , for your own good .  I would you could have seene your selfe , and how your disguise became you , as I was told , I do but friendly tell you of some passages , as they were to mee related , by those whom I have charm'd to speake no more on 't . Be secure therefore in your Unkle .  First , at the doore you bounc'd like a Giant at the Gate of an inchanted Castle , before which could be opened offence was taken by you at your Sedan-men ; for asking money ( as appeard afterwards ) more then you brought from the Taverne , and leaving their office fouler by a distemper'd stomach-full , then you found it . In the strife for these sad causes your Sword being seiz'd on , you being unable to use it , were found by my servants at Luggs with your brace of Corps bearers , in the dirt , and their poore hovill Chaire turnd on his ridge in the Kennell .  I hope you will say so , when you have heard all George ; but by the way your late stock being spent , here are ten peeces towards a supply .  But why me up in your bedroll George ?  You remember none o' this !  Nor how you scar'd Chamber-maid , whom I sent in love to see care taken for you , not dreaming of any ill thought in you , doe you remember how you told her , and what you would give her , when your Unkle died for a small present curtesie ? she was faine to saisfie you with a false promise to steale to bed to you before foure men could force , or humor you into it .  'T is well you consider it now . And still consider George .  How ill excesse of Wine , Roaring and VVhoring becomes a Gentleman , and how well sobrietie , curtesie , and noble action , and dangers wait upon the one sort , and what safety accompanies the other !  True George , for had you not first beene sullied with Wine , you would not have abus'd your selfe to ha tumbled in the dirt with your Litter-mules , nor offer'd to seduce my Chamber-maide . Suppose you had overcome her , how could you have come off but with shame to your selfe , and the utter ruine of the poore Wench ?  Nay , bee not sad upon it George , as I would win you from your faults , I would have you still be cheerfull . If any thought troubles you , you may be free with me George .  How meane you ?  Is the man sound troe ?  Sound i' your senses sir , I meane .  Doe you meane your Unkle , and not know whose wrong you unnaturally and sinfully pursue ?  But is all this in earnest ?  Fie , fie , you doe but say so ?  Nay preythee George set me down a little .  But prathee tell mee , dost thou not all this onely to trie me , or am I a Rogue thinke you , or wouldst thou seriously that thine own naturall Unkle , thy bountifull Patron , nay thy father on the matter , should suffer such a wrong , and done by us ?  Was ever such a Reprobate ?  You speake not on your knowledge .  I heard Mr. Saveall protest within these three days that hee thought my Husband the chastest man ( of a Gentleman ) that he knows .  What! since he married me ?  What an inhumane Villain 's this !   You have told too much already to have any acquaintance with me at all , nor shall you , unlesse you presently recant all that you have , or would have said upon this subject .  Stand further and replie not , lesse I call in those that shall sadly silence you . Have you abus'd your Unkle , and the next best friend you have i' the World , in hope thereby to abuse mee most , that was no enemy of yours till now you justly have provok'd me ?  Was this the best construction you could make of my love to you , or a fit requitall , to make me an incestuous Whore ?  Come I perceive you are sorry ; and that 's a part of satisfaction . Therefore for once I 'le winke at your transgression , especially before others . Here 's one you see .  But tempt me so againe , and I 'le undoe you .  Nay be not sad George , discover not your selfe , and you are safe , for once I tell you .  But will you Cozen goe , and doe that for me ?  All Cosen , if you forget not .  He is both schoold , and coold I hope . Now Closet what 's your News ?  Doe you not know his Name , or Trade ?  If you have lost 'em by the way pray go back and seeke 'em , or bring you his businesse .  What strange matter is it troe ? or what Citizen , is not his Name Saleware ?  A Silkeman is he not ?  I hope his impudent Wife has not told him all ; if shee has , where 's his remedy in this Womans Law-case ?  Then wee shall have it , 'T is his Wife sure , well I  am prepar'd for the incounter . Bid 'em come up , if they grow violent or too bold with mee , I 'le set my Nephew George upon 'em . 'T is not his Wife , what Creature is it troe with me , Mr. Saleware ?  How sir I pray ?  I am now ( Lady ) in favour with my Unkle , and in faire possibility of a good Estate , deporting my selfe ( I intend to doe ) a civill Gentleman . To which end ( induc'd as well by reason , as by long continued affections ) I tender my selfe to you in the holy condition of Marriage . If you vouchsafe your consent , ( which is my most earnest request ) I shall not onely declare my selfe a good Husband , but the most happy ,  Here 's the direction . To the Lilly white Hands of Mistris Mariana Gymcrack , is that your Name Lady ?  I conceive the businesse , and find the error , and my great doubt is over .  What would you have me doe Mr. Saleware ?  'T is pity a Gentlewoman should suffer too much , and I like her so well at first sight , that I am easily mov'd to doe good for her , is shee your Kinsewoman in blood Mr. Saleware , or your wifes ?  Well Mr. Saleware , leave your Kinsewoman with me a little while , you shall not be scene in my act , I 'le try what I can doe for her .  Closet .  Madam .  Take this Gentlewoman to your Chamber , and I charge you let none see her , or take notice of her , but your selfe and me , till I give order .  IN truth your story is pittifull , but your own folly has brought your scourge upon you .  Well , for this once I 'le straine a point of honour for you , chiefly indeed in answer of his rude unnaturall presumption in attempting mee . That a Villaine can still be so barbarously lustfull ! If in this way I fit him not , and cause him to desist his beastly purpose , I will discover all to his undoing . Closet you know my minde , and full directions for the conveyance of our designe .  I presume to further the matter , hee 'l come    home Drunke by his not comming to Supper .  You know his humour best it seemes , away , away , my husband comes .  A Kinswoman of hers whom shee would preferre to mee , but I have answer'd her , I will not charge your purse with more attendants ; onely I have given her leave to entertaine , and lodge her this night .  Now what 's your suite sir , ( as you are pleas'd to call it ) which I would have to be your free command ?  These sodaine departures of friends out of the Land , are so frequent , and that I may believe you intend really , and no fained excuse ; now will I thinke as long as you have good and substantiall Made-worke at home , that you will seeke abroad for any more slight sale-ware .  I am glad of his absence to night , lest there should happen some cumbustion in the house by his unruly Nephew , in case hee should discover my deceipt in beguiling him with his own wench instead of me , I do even  tremble to thinke upon the unnaturall Villaine , that would offer so to wrong his Unkle . I thought I had school'd him sufficiently , and beaten him off at his first attempt , and hee to assaile me againe with more forcible temptations urging me to a promise .  And have you put his Damsell into her night-attire ?  And let her be sure to steale from him before Day .  May Ladies that shall heare this story told ,  Judge mildly of my act since hee 's so bold .  What aile you ! Are you mad ?  What an insatiate beast are you ? would you undoe for ever both me and your selfe ?  I cannot thinke 't is he .  Closet , goe your wayes downe , and hearke before you —  What charge doe you guesse ?  Goe you are a wicked fellow ; I am sorry for any the least favour I have done thee , and doe thou dare to attempt me once more , I 'le ha' thee turnd headlong out of my dores .  Touch mee but with a finger , and I 'le raise the House .  You dare not say so , for spoyling your fortune .  Dare you forfit your own Reputation so ?  Canst thou be so villanously impudent to destroy thine own fortune to ruine me ?  I am undone .  Thou Villaine , hast undone me .  Pray heare me sir ?  What shame did you , or what affliction I  Suffer , when you discoverd unto me  Your bargaine of a hundred pound in Saleware ,  You understand me . How was life a torment  To me then think you ?  'T is no revenge at all , onely a shew  To startle you , or try your manly temper ,  And so neare to be even with yee as to let you know ,  what some wife might perhaps ha' done being so mov'd ,  It was my plot indeed to straine you hither to this false  fire discovery , for which I 'le give you reasons .  Mr. Saveall , you have done many faire offices for his Nephew , doe this for me , intreat him to a Conference a few minutes in my Chamber ; if I cleare not my selfe in his and your opinion , and that by witnesses , let me be found the shame of all my Sex .  I would not that you should , nor give a looke , or word to him till you have heard me ; Then exercise your Justice .  Goe to your Bed agen George , and sleepe , be not affraid of Bug-beares .  By my direction George .  No more o' that good George .  What doe you meane ?  Not a penny ; if you seeke my undoing , heaven forgive you .  Goe Closet till I call you .  Let him not go sir , I beseech you in this desperate way , nor till I answer to his accusation .  Mistris Crostill ! you have much honord me —  Cozen Fitzgerrard ! welcome .  Pray Mr. Thrivewell entertaine the Lady .  You shall doe well to put it to him Cosen —  Husband , I overheard you , and commend you ,  That tho' you cast your Nephew from all hopes  Of good from you , you will not yet destroy  His fortunes other wayes .  For that I finde by your reviling him  You more inflame that crosse phantastick Widow  With eager love to cast her selfe upon him .  No , let me intreat you .  Be that way charitable , and speake worse ;  The worse the better .  Honest Wat in good earnest . Gentlewoman with your hand give him your consent , and I 'le supply you with the od hundred pound , for Wats love to his Master .  Yes , and with your allowance ; it shall be in lieu of the hundred I tooke in Commodity of her Kinswoman Mistris Saleware , which would never thrive with mee ( as it may properly with them ) as 't was the price of lust you know it was , and how untowardly things have chanc'd amongst us since it was so ; And now that  I have declin'd it , you shall see how sweetly all will be reconcil'd .  Goe get you to the Priest presently , and bring him hither for thy Master , Wat .  My cause my Lord , is almost ended among our selves . Pray let your former therefore be determin'd first , your Lordship may be pleas'd to sit .  No you shall stay , and all the rest , speake openly my Lord , I doe beseech you .  I 'le speake it for you then ; Good my Lord sit judge , This Woman comes to accuse me of incontinency with your servant Bellamy , is it not so ?  Ha , ha , ha , I have a Nephew here affirm'd as much .  Forth comming my good Lord . Good Master Bellamy , fetch your Nephew , you 'l finde him in my Chamber .  Your Plot good Mistris Saleware would not hold .  Yet the young Gentleman ( such as you see he is ) has lien with mee of old , before I was married ; doe not looke so dismaydly , I will not detect you with my husband for a hundred pound —  O Phebe Gin crack ! shee is by this time righted , that is Married .  See new Married couples , please your Lordship  to take notice ? 