 How ? vvhat have vve done ? In relieving her from killing , we are all become Traytors .  So let us give them their swords again ; and  vvhen they have done their vvork , to make all sure ,  vve 'll hang them for their pains , and so keep the Law  in our own hands vvhile vve have it .  Kill a woman 'cause she was a Queen ?  VVe 'l teach 'm to kill Queens :  Madam , the Court in all the Braverie  It boasts and borrows , cannot so rejoyce  In the bright shining Beauty of their Queen ,  As we in your enjoying in this plainness .  Their Bells , and Bonfires , Tilts and Tournaments ,  Their Feasts and Banquets , Musicks and costly shews  ( How ere unpaid for ) shall not outpass our loves .  But how you 'll live , we know not : we are now  In our old former Health : the Countrey 's cur'd ,  Your Practice at an end : unless you had  The common gift of most Physitians ,  To make as many sick , as you make sound ,  You will not find a Patient in seven years .  And mine , to make Tape-Purles : can you do it ?  Well Mistris , ours is the voice of the whole Countrey ;  All which , or what you please of it , is yours :  Take this House : make your choice of servants .  Take our children : make your own Rates for their Education .  Our Purses and our lives are free to you :  Get what you can , that 's your own : will this please you ?  Take your possession then : and let  Posteritie record , that without grieving  A Royal Queen once Traded for her living .  Dare we not do 't ? that word 's an hanging matter  Here in our Civil Government : dare not do 't Sir ?  VVee 'l do 't ; and when 't is done , wee 'l argue Law with you .  That was :  You shall not catch us tripping Sir ,  VVe are more than your match .  But brother Lollio , make not your speech so long : what is 't to them ? they 'l carry none on 't to 'th other world : let 's do what we came to do , e'en hang 'em . Then , as I said , wee 'l argle it afterwards .  See what y' have won by your delay ! if she prevent not now  The good we meant her , I dare hang for 'm .  There now , there they deserve hanging for that :  They call you Queen , against the Proclamation .  Dare you maintain 'em in 't , and now speak for 'em ?  And so am I , and will be : and but that wise woman , which is as much to say as a fool for her labour .  But that , I say , she has gain-said it , we would ; yet to shew our selves Sages , hang 'em up for Scarcrowes , to fright all their fellows for coming from Court to kill women in the Countrey .  Thou shalt be one next Sessions , without all peradventure .  VVhat 's the matter man ?  Doubtless and without all peradventure , more miracles .  The news , good neighbour .  Thou shalt tell me first whether it be good or bad , or I le not hear it .  I mean which is it ? good or bad ?  Nay thou art in thy Jibes now : how good or how bad is thy news ?  I pray thee neighbour , I do pray thee how good or bad is it ?  Who , the holy woman ? that we are all so bound to pray for ? I hope no ill 's betide her .  Did not I tell you she was an unknown woman , and therefore a good one , quoth you ? but say I , doubtlesly ; and without all peradventure , all that she did was but a kind of witchcraft .  By whom is she accus'd ?  Vertue can want no Foes ,  This is indeed the best news thou couldst bring .  Now doubtlesly and without all peradventure , 't is the Queen indeed : and if she be not a witch , I am sorry I thought so , with all my heart : where be those men ? wee 'l hang 'm presently .  Nay without all peradventure , if there be goodness above ground , I said , and I say it again , 't is in that woman .  'T was well you confess'd at last .  Our Queen wee 'l call her now , without all peradventure .  Heaven bless our Holy woman .  It is most requisite for her safety : her danger may be great .  A good guard then in my opinion were more requirable .  You will put on all Offices , yet count 'em pain and trouble .  This is some Courtier sure that 's with her ; he smells illfavordly .  He shall not have her out of sight , that 's certain .  Down with him into utter darkness .  The State is finely serv'd already .  And let her go : we have shut up your news-bringer safe enough , will keep you by your favour , short enough from hindring such a work .  Will you neglect your House and Trade to meddle any more with State-matters ?  And bring our necks in danger to assist you ?  Let your own counsell advise you to stay .  O Mistress , you were careful for her , that comes  I warrant but to jeere you .  'T was time to have a care : I , and a piteous care .  Well pious then :  You 'l shew your own wit , whose clothes soever you wear  ( So do the wits of the time ) but as I said ,  'T is time we have a care , for though our Queen ,  Our School Mistress I would say , be mercifully , idleful  It is fit that we be prejudicious in the State .  Jew in your face .  Trip me again ?  I do say so , without all peradventure  For if the Candle of her mercy be not put out ,  VVe shall shortly , see more honest men then Knaves among us .  I mean no more Knaves then your self , Brother .  All this I grant : but before we sit and bustle on the Bench , because it is , and that without all peradventure , the first time that ever we play'd so wise a part , is it not fit to take advice among our selves , how to deform our selves in our office .  In with your Horns : how now ?  Does he think to control me ? because he has been a Sexton , and a little more book learned then a Lay man with an Amen forsooth ?  Or because he has been in many a mans grave before him , does he think no man so deep in grave matters as himself ?  Shall he bid me In , In ? as if I were not his inferior ?  I will shew my self his inferior I , and a greater man then he ; and to prove my self a great man , let him hang one , I will save two .  Let him that uses any mercy lack mercy , for my part .  Sit and fall : was that so wisely spoken of a book-learned man now ?  I say a Traytors head is his own Head : and a good Subjects head is the Kings Head .  Wilt thou tell me that ?  I , hang him , hang him .  Without all peradventure the Hangman means to hang for him .  Your long speeches will loose our purpose again , without all peradventure .  Away with him without peradventure   And without all peradventure well said Judge Andrea :  How long must we say away with him ? ha !  So , now you see what 's become of your fine speeches .  No , 't is in care of our selves , because we know  Not to breed our Children honestly without you .  And therefore if you say , Hang not this man We are bound to hang him ; we will shew our selves the Kings Subjects not yours .  It will be so , without all peradventure . 