 Pray Sir , how do you like her ? I am much affraid of her .  A rare man sure . And , I warrant , well seen in a Woman .  He speaks with great reason , me thinks , and to the purpose , I would I understood him .  Now the Lord receive her to his mercy .  Go finde another room maid for your talk ,  Mr. Sarpego , my mother calls for you .  She has now receiv'd a Letter . Pray be gone ,  I have more serious business of mine own .  Ex. Sar. Brid .   You are the Creature then that my deare  Doctor has sent me , that can dance , read , write , and be secret . I shall use you all in all . And I prithee how fares my Physitian ?  Peace : Here comes my mother .  I can my Cinquepace friend . But I prithee teach me some tricks . Who would care for a female , that moves after the plain pace ? No : Give me the woman of tricks . Teach me some tricks I prethee .  How now sweet mother ? What ill newes changeth your face thus ?  One Mr. Footwell , Mother ; who teacheth Gentlewomen to doe all things Courtly , to dance Courtly , to love their husbands Courtly —  I pray see wherein we may be gratefull . I pray speak .  Now deare M. Footwell , as ever you pitied the use of a poor Gentlewoman , that would faine use her beauty , whilst there is some pleasure in it , read and answer these Letters with commanding eloquence ; force them to affect me .  No : I prethee what is 't ?  Yes : but I cannot read the answer . Prethee what i st ?  Nay , and you love me , what i st ?  A lean purse !  Why Footwell , though my husband be but a Bankrupt Knave —  Well , fool let him be then ; yet I have a Mother will not see me want for necessary ends : And I hope I had the wit to cozen my husband of somewhat against a rainy day . Look you Sir , I kept these for a friend in a corner .  Nay that 's sure , I will not give them :  O J : J am wholly his , J will send all to him .  O yes : he shall have one . J prethee praise me to them both , and commend to each of them one of these Jewells , not that I doe so much care for the use of them , yet because I would not be wonder'd at like an Owle among my neighbors , for living honest in my husbands absence . I prethee work effectually for mee , sweet M. Footwell .  BUt I prethee satisfie me : What returne they ? Received they my Jewells ?  And what said they ? Can they affect ?  Thou shalt have . Are thy news happy ?  Hold , spend this ten pound for me , Footwel .  Do you think so ?  Does he know that too ?  Enough , if I do not make him an Example to all the bawdy Quacks in the Kingdome ; say there is no virtue in Cudgels , and Bedstaves . I le charm him for opening any more secrets of mine , I le warrant him . And so write to Sir Andrew .  I le cast about for weapons instantly —  Sweet husband !  Why ifaith , dear heart , dost thinke me so simple , that I did not know thee all the while ? Alas man , I did but counterfeit , as you did , to maintaine the jest ; kisse me sweet duck — onely to maintaine the jest ifaith .  Ieremy ! 