 T is humbly all exprest in this petition .  My head itches to be at home again .  May 't please your Majesty we are inform'd  That in their travails unto Delphos , both  Of them are dead .  Would we knew that .  Lord Stratocles then should pardon us . Hee 's a man  Gracious amongst us . But —  All that we crave ( and that upon our knees )  Is , that the king will graciously be pleas'd  To make a speedy choice , and give us leave  With pardon to depart , and signifie  His Royal pleasure to the doubtful countreys .  What 's the complaint ?  We are the more beholding to him ; on .  'T was more their Gentleness , then your deserving , on .  Un'ch , That would be more  Our gentleness then your deserving too . on , on .  Good , interrupt us not we 'll hear ye in order .  On you , Sir , ere you go ; and come not back  For any thing unspoke you left behind .  That was their Gentleness more then your  ( They having three swords , and you none to guard you )  They kill'd you not indeed , yet on again .  What further do you charge 'em with .  Now you grow bold , and saucy I must tell you .  Put it him on again . On with it , on .  Resist and we will hang thee . Now my Lords ,  My Princess I may say : For one of you  Must be our King . We know you though you know  Not us ; you may perhaps hereafter know us  More by your Gentleness then our deserving .  We are the heads of Tempe ; and the chief  Swain heads of Thessaly ( the King has known us )  And here we came to lay our heads together  For good of common wealth . Here at the verge  Of this adjoyning Thicket is our Bower  Of consultation ; and from thence ( regardful  Ever with eye and ear for common good )  We saw a beard pull'd off ; and heard that mouth ,  ( Which now is dumb ) open a plot , unlike  The pittiful complaint he made to us .  Good Gods .  Stand close . See who comes here .  No not betray'd . Y' are but well meet my Lord ,  But that 's our Gentleness more then your deserving .  Or if you 'l ha 't betray'd , then blame your own  Overmuch policy and want of Beasts  To carry it to Market . We nere lay  More burthen on a Asse , then he can bear  Here in the countrey : what is done at court  We know not . Here perhaps is one can tell ,  Know you this bearded Satyre ?  The fellow has some Grace ; he weeps : But come  Princess and Princes , what is now your pleasure  We do unto these men ?  There is some hope these yet may prove new men .  Now it remains , that we advise our selves ,  Brethren of Tempe , that since these delinquents  Are fallen into our hands , that we discharge  Our Countrey loyalty with discretion ,  And not release him from our power , but by  The power above us . ( that 's the kings ) wee 'l wait  On you to court . On you for your new loves ,  And you for old acquaintance .  We told you for your good , good Mr. Geron ,  Fond love became you not .  So can our wives  Who have follow'd us up to Court we thank 'em  Pray Juno we get them honestly home again .  Again 't was eene a comming .  Nay we are heads , I tell you Master Geron ,  And should have wit ; and shew 't we can i' th' countrey ,  In the head vein , though hear at Court , like courtiers  We 'll shew it in our heels . Pray therefore on . 