 Good morrow Lady .  May I crave admittance to the Lady Governess ?  May I prevail then , to impart the duty  I have in charge , unto the Ladies daughter ?  Lord Stratocles , solicitous for glad tydings ,  ( Beseeching that her Grace be pleas'd to take  The tender of his service ; and affirming  Upon his honour that no rest affects him  Until he shall receive a perfect knowledge  Of her recovery ) prayes to be advertis'd  In what condition of health she fares ;  Or to gain leave to visit her himself .  Yet let her know  My Lords obsequious care for her recovery .  I will acquaint my Lord ; who for your care  Shall upon his advancement to the Crown  Give me command , who will give present order  Unto my man for your promotion .  Your diligence deserves it .  My soveraign Lord .  Now my King speaks himself . Let but your eye  Find out the way these ready hands shall act  The strength of your designs . I can perceive  That now the labour of your Jove-like brain  Is bringing forth the Pallas , shall inspire  Me , to perform the work of my advancement .  If a disguis'd face and a counterfeit hand  Ever prevail'd , may these in this plot speed .  My Lord , I had this in charge to render to you .  My Lord , I was commanded  To convey these into your Lordships hands .  My Lord 't was not  The man that mov'd me . For I know him not ;  But the reward . I humbly take my leave .  Now for my Combitants . Th' appointed ground  Is here ; the time draws on ; and the event  Foreseen in my imaginary light  Of every passe projected in their fight .  In the first passage , each shall wound the other ;  Then shall they give , lend , pay , change wound for wound ,  Till both of them lie fainting on the ground .  Holding between their teeth their doubtful lives :  When I , to end the question , friendly come in ,  And with an equal hand dispatcht 'em both .  And so into my ambush . One approaches .  This I foresaw 't would come to . 'Save ye lordings .  And whither travail ye ? Do you not want a guide  To help ye on your way ?  Unhappily gues'd . I pray inquire no further .  O , be pitiful  And spare my life , my Lords , and I 'le reveal  Matters of weight and wonder ; which , conceal'd ,  Will yet cost both your lives , and make the Princess ,  If she not answer my Lords fierce desires ,  Subject to rape and murder .  Let me but warn ye of Eudina's danger ,  Whereby her virgin Innocence may not suffer ,  And then inflict your furies on me .  This very hour she 's to be surpriz'd  By my Lord Stratocles , here , on Tempe plains ,  Where she is come to walk , slenderly guarded  To take the air . He with a strength will seise her  And hurry her hence unto his Mansion house ,  To yield to his desire , or death , if suddenly  Prevention be not made .  Preserve me from his vengeance , and I 'le bring you  Unto his enterprize .  Help , help , aid me good people , help .  I am a servant to Lord Stratocles  Who has preserv'd your Countey and your lives .  These two are his malignant enemies ;  And finding that my Lord is in these parts  Together with the Princess , fair Eudina  ( Who has made him her choice ) they lie in wait  To murder him , as they had me , had not  The Gods sent you to rescue me .  I have no more to say , but that you take 'em  On your allegiance to safe custody ,  And let me pass .  I thank you , Sir , I had like to ha' left my sword deserving ,  Behind , which they disarm'd me of .  No more , nor you , less you detain me longer .  No , 't was ods ,  Such as men meet that fight against the Gods . 