 Repuls'd ? disgrac'd ? and made the scorn o' th' Court ?  Is the advancement of an upstart stranger ,  Because he is the Queens dear Countrey-man ?  Have I for all my many Services ,  Found the reward of being made an outcast ?  Could not the King be pleas'd , though he advanc'd  Sforza unto the Honour I deserv'd ,  To trust me in his service ? could he think  My sword could be an hinderance in the Battail ,  Or have delay'd the winning of the Field !  And must his Court and presence which I have  VVith my observance dignifi'd , reject me  Now , as a dangerous and infectious person !  T is a new way to gratifie old Souldiers .  So soon return'd ? I do commend thy speed .  The news at Court .  Sforza ? Ser . Lord Sforza Sir , I cry him mercy ,  The new Lord General .  Thou com'st too fast  The Fame of Sforza's Valour , good if it last .  VVhat other news ?  If thou hast worse , let 's have it quickly .  VVhat is 't , without your Preface ?  Th' hast made me amends , ther 's for thy news .  Is this bad news ?  VVhat ? then the old Courtier ? thou knowst him not .  I le shew him thee . He is the onely man  That does the King that service , just to love  Or hate as the King does , so much and so long ,  Just to a scruple or a minute , and then he has an  ignorant Loyaltie , to do as the King bids him , though  he fear immediate death by it .  Call him in .  'T is thus Sir , I can tell you .  You come with strength of armed men , to bear me  From mine own House which was my appointed Prison ,  Unto a stronger Hold .  The King it seems now that his Mignion  General is Landed , cannot think him safe , and I not  Faster : which though I can prevent , I will not .  Come , what Gaol will you remove me to ?  What ? with a Guard ?  Nor you me , do you ?  Why perhaps he does , you see he sends for me .  Here 's an Humour now .  I commend your Loyaltie : Come , we are Friends .  Were you afraid , you came so arm'd and guarded ?  Indeed my Lord you are welcome .  VVhat should the King intend by this ? I fear no ill ,  For I have done none ; therefore I may go .  Perhaps he thinks to make me honour Sforza  Now in his time of Jollitie , and be friends :  I need not go for that ; he cannot do 't ,  Yet I will go to tell him so : my Lord ,  My joy to see the King will post me faster  Than your grave Loyaltie , or Massie Bill-men .  Madam , howe'er my Person , no less then my Authority , I know is most unwelcom to you ; I must appear , and lay the Kings Command upon you , which you must obey .  You must go to the Bar , to answer to  Those Accusations that will be brought  Against your Life and Honour , as touching  Your foul Disloyaltie unto the King .  Would I could .  I would I durst speak what I think .  You 'll know too much  I fear , anon . Come , Madam , vvill you go ?  The High-Court stayes your coming .  Revenge has cast her self into my hands ,  Strangling the Life of Sforza in these Lines :  His Head is in this grasp , but where is Honour ?  Must that forsake this Brest ? must the pure heat  Of heavenly Honour , yeeld unto the scorch  Of Hell-bred base Revenge ? it must not , cannot :  For as the Sun puts out all baser Fires ,  Where Honour shines , thought of Revenge expires .  Besides , he is below my Anger now ;  And has no Life but forfeited to Law ,  Or the Kings Fury , I 'll not question which ;  Nor was it justlie , he gave me th' Affront ,  In being made Lord General , when I stood for 't .  But the Kings selfe , in his Election ,  He wrong'd not me no more then I did him ,  When th' Honour was transfer'd from him to me .  That 's answer'd cleerly , I acquit thee , Sforza .  But now my Loyaltie , how shall I discharge  That special Duty I am here commanded ,  ( Stand back I say ) to see the Execution ,  And bring the Head of Sforza to the King ?  What an addition here is of Advancement ?  To make me first a General , then a Hangman :  I 'll do him better Service : Loyal Horatio  Would think himself now damn'd , to leave a tittle  Of the Kings powerful pleasure unfulfil'd .  Call the Keeper .  I am to see and speak with Sforza .  My Honour be your VVarrant : will not that serve ?  Do'st know me , or my place ?  But have you been so strict to all men else ?  Has no man chang'd a vvord vvith him ?  I must commend thy Care ; see , there 's the Signet .  All leave the Room , but be at hand .  My Lord , I do presume I am unwelcom ,  Because you are possess'd I never lov'd you :  Alas ! I pity him : his too too much vexation  Has over-tam'd him .  Pray let me ask you first ; Have you been kept  So strictly from the Speech of all men ?  You seem to take no notice of the cause of your commitment .  Yes , much about the   As dearly as her self .  The Queen and shee 's all one .  He knows nothing ,  I 'm confident , of all these great proceedings .  Poor man ! I pity him : but I le put him to it .  VVill you now answer me as y'  are a Souldier  To some few Articles ?  'T were shame he should die ignorant of at least  The Accusations are laid against him .  You are accus'd  Of an intended Treason 'gainst the King .  Even the King himself .  You flie now from the question : y'  are engag'd by the Honour of a Souldier  Unto that Accusation : guiltie or not guiltie ?  In that I am satisfied : now to the next ,  If you will hear it ; you shall promise me  To answer without passion I or no .  You 're next accus'd  Of fowl Adulterie with the Queen Eulalia .  Guiltie or no ?  Then I must hold you to your promise Sir .  Forbear I pray .  My Lord you much forget , is not this Passion ?  You see I could oppress you ; but all forbear the roome .  If you will be calm , I le tell you what I come for .  If this man be not innocent , vertue lives not .  It is , if you can apprehend it so .  My Lord , I take you for my friend , and come  To make my moan to you ; insomuch as now  I do conceive you Noble , Vertuous , Honest .  I could not see your vertue , when it shin'd  Thorow the radiant favours of the King :  It dazled me with envie then : but now ,  Like the red Sun through cold and mystie vapours ,  I can behold it at the full .  I say I come to make my moan to you ,  Groaning beneath a weightie Injury  The King has thrown upon me .  In putting a base office on me .  No Sir , the Hangmans Office . Read that —  I am commanded there , and warranted  VVith present speed to bring your Head to him .  My Lord , you shall not undervalue 't so :  That Honour which has won me to you , shall  Work better for your preservation .  I have much more to tell you , and strong Reasons  Why you should live : of the Queens infinite wrongs  And yours , wrought by your Daughters cruel Ambition .  There you see my strength :  If now for truth and Honours cause I strain  A point of Loyaltie , you will engage  Your Honour to secure me ?  I ask no better . Keeper !  Dismiss that Guard , and give us way .  Now come my Lord , vertue may be cast by ;  But never overcome by Tyrannie .  A self-wil'd obstinate man :  Such as he liv'd he di'd : and gracious Madam ,  That a more bloody Spectacle should not move  Your tender nature to compunction , I brought  But this inseparate Adjunct of his malicious Head  Against you , the King , and the whole Kingdoms good .  Gonzago Sir , your Son ?  His last words that he spake to me , were these ;  Go , tell the King my Father , that his frown  Hath pierc'd my heart : tell him , if all his Land  Be peopled with obedient hearts like mine ,  He needs no lawes to second his displeasure ,  To make a general Depopulation :  But that he may not lose so much , I pray  That in my Death his misse-plac'd anger die ,  And that his wrath have double force 'gainst those  That to his Person and his Laws are Foes .  And then , as if the Spirit of Prayer  Had onely been habitual in his soul ,  He did implore Heaven's goodness to come down ,  Lifting him hence to shine upon your Crown .  This done , he pray'd me leave the Roome . I wept : In sooth I could-not chuse .  Yes , in so sweet a Posture , as no Statuarie  With best of skill on most immaculate Marble  Could fashion him an Image purer , slighter .  I found his stretch'd-out fingers which so lately  Had clos'd his eyes , still moistned with his tears ;  And on his either cheek a tear undryed ,  Which shone like Stars .  Fearful effect of Pride !  What a tyrannous Ambition  Has the Devil puff'd up this Bladder with !  By the Kings favour Madam ( not to stir  The dust of your dead Father ) he has Souldiers  That know to lead and execute no less  Then did victorious Sforza .  My head ? and Trayterous ? I do appeal unto the King .  'T is done , my liege .  Have you no Faith , nor due obedience  Unto the King ? this outrage is 'gainst him ,  In me he suffers .  He 's come within that hour , that shall relieve me .  Where is he ? is he come ?  Then Faith is fled from man : is Sforza fled ?  Why should I wish to live , now Honour 's dead ?  Now take your bloody course , and in my fall ,  Martyr the man that sav'd your General .  Sforza lives .  As I now live , I set him free from Prison ,  Trusting unto his Honour to secure me ,  In which I did abuse the Kings Authoritie  To th' forfeit of my life .  You have outdone me in Nobilitie .  My Lord , you saw not th' Apparition , did you ?  What do you see , my Lord ?  Fear not : he lives , and Loyal to the King .  Not seen in Court these ten dayes .  'T is a most happy Information .  The Sun  Appears again in the Kings smiles : observe .  Yes , here are some now coming , I hear 'm , that are merry in hope to make the King so .  I cannot Sir , in dutie nevertheless  But fall before your mercy , which I pray for ,  That durst assume the hardness to control :  Your Majestie Command . 