 Peace , heark .  What new devise can this be ? Look !  Thou ever talk'st of the wrong matter .  No ; but I heard an inkling at the Paris Tavern last night of a She-Gallant-that had travelled France and Italy ; and that she would —  Plant some of her forraign collections , the fruits of her travels , in this Garden here , to try how they would grow or thrive on English earth .  And is this the Damsel that has been in France and Italy ? Clot . Codpiece-row .  Gramercy Brother Nick .  No he shall stick there . Now to the story Gentlewoman , 't was that we sate for .  We both here promise you he shall be there by noon .  'T is so , we will Cry mercy , you are busie , we will not moote to day then ?  Yes , to the Brokers .  Men are apt to beleeve strange fancies in their liquour , and to entertain new opinions .  Perhaps vve might convert him .  I vow , but you shall not , that 's mine .  Whose man are you ?  I ask no favour , sir .  I vow he may grant any thing of any kinde .  Exceptions amongst us ? nay , then I vow . —  So , 't is gone round .  Phew ! beat not the poor fellow so .  Let it be of the Blade .  I swear , 't was well .  But did not Mihil say he would come again .  Is he gone from hence ?  Avvay vve 'll follovv thee .  Why Turkie Merchant ?  Fare you well , father .  Pray let me see the bill before you pay it .  Bread and beer , 1. sh.  4. d. I do not think we four could eat 3. d. of bread , and for my part , I drank but two glasses of beer .  Nay , an 't be at the bar , it stands for Law . Well , wine 5 sh.  9. d. I think we had no lesse . A Shoulder of Mutton stuff't with Oysters 8. sh. that cost your Master very near ten groats , a brace of Partridge 5. sh.  a couple of Cocks 4. sh.  6. d. a dozen of Larks 20. d. Anchovis 6. sh.  I swear but a Sawcer full .  All 's law , I tell you , all 's law in Tavernes . But I hope there will be a law for you one o'these dayes . Then is their Fruit and Cheese , Tobaccho , Fire , and I know not what , is 't right cast .  You shall give it him .  Are ye so sharp-set ye Amazonian Trulls ?  No , agree , agree .  Lo here , the man that dares it not deny .  What is it Drawer ?  Do you grumble ? Mr. Cuffelesse .  Fie , fie , forbear , enough , too much in conscience .  I swear you shall no more .  And his head too What rotten scab is this ?  I know him . And you shall not touch him . Best is , he knows nor me . Good Heaven , what Braintrick has possest him .  Come , 't is an honest fellow , that is only asham'd to run so base a course for his living in his own face . Poor man , I warrant his feare threatens his breeches shrewdly . But let 's away , and quickly , our stay is dangerous . Come , we forgot Mich Croswil and the wenches .  I 'le swear you do not well to let him drink so .  Thou seest he can scarce stand .  How do you , sit ?  Best lie down upon a bed . Drawer !  You are not wilde ?  And the friendliest to a friend . We have been casting for it , Sweet , this Twelve-moneth , and Heaven pardon me . I vow'd never to take acquaintance of my Father , till 't were effected . Although I know of late he has been willing .  Mad . Kat . And we are witnesses .  All , all .  Come , you must make a wedding-night on 't Nick , Mihil will go no lesse .  'T is well , pray sir , retire your self to the next room there a while , and stay you with him , Lady .  But what do you with Gabriel ? Is it not time to wake him yet ?  Have you followed all Mihils directions ?  Where be the Wenches ?  Noble Commander , hold thy furious hand , and heare thy souldiers speak .  I 'le see it done , and take our new made Brides with us for witnesses .  Yes , as fast as troth and holy words can binde 'em .  Hoping you will not stake that good opinion , I 'le now come nearer to you . And since here is such a convention of love and joy . I hope my offering of a sons true duty may finde I .  It is too late , or needlesse now for me to marry her .  I do not say so , sir .  Sir , the truth is , we are married already . 