 SO I am ready : And trust me Jacconetta  My pretty Moore , ( for so I still must call thee  For thy deare Masters sake that gave thee to me )  Thou art grown skilfull in these quaint attires ,  So lately unacquainted with my wearing :  Thou hast plaid the good beginner at this dressing ,  And by thine industy and further practise ,  I doubt not but my Knowledge will grow ripe .  VVhat say you Borgio ?  Why not it my person ?  Still Borgio in your old morality !  Peace Borgio , peace .  I would I understood this misery !  Deale freely with me Borgio , what new art  Hast thou in practise , that thou setst a face  Shiningly varnish'd with Divinity  On a profession , that makes Nature vile  In her own shame ? Lust's instrument !  Nay case of instruments , holding all meanes  For propagation and maintaining of it ;  To make thy Gaine out of its dregs and fragments .  Tell me , dost thinke by preaching modesty  To quit thee of the basenesse of thy trade ;  A poore necessitous Bravo ? or hast hope  To live upon my honesty , and yet be still  Thy selfe a Ruffiano ?  Ha , ha , ha , —  Sir , leave this grumbling , or I 'le turne you off  Amongst your Brothers , and your Sons Ruffianos ,  To lurch i' th' night betwixt eleaven and two  To rob and drown for prey ; till being taken  Imediate Hanging followes .  Your reason sir ?  This fellow speakes my thoughts . Borgio , I thought  You had respect to your particular profit  In all this winding warinesse for my good .  Borgio , no more of this ,  A deare friend put you to me , for whose sake  I hitherto have follow'd your advise ,  In hoysting up the price of my virginity .  And such as did attempt , by offring lesse ,  I have sent back with shame ; as the old youth  Last night , for which I thanke thee Jacconetta ,   And therefore , doubt not , carefull Borgio ,  Unlesse I meet a husband by the way  I will not stoope this moneth at a lesse rate ,  Then the proposed sum and your consent .  So now about our businesse .  Some of my visitants I know are neare ,  Wayt circumspectly Borgio .  There is some hidden vertue in this fellow ,  Or dangerous ill : but whether let it be ;  As was my Birth my purpose shall be free .  Make fit my Chamber Jaconet . But first  Give me my Lute ; and set me for the signe  O what I meane to be , the fam'd Novella .  Now Borgio , how speakes your muster roll ?  What ? are you full ?  But one at once good Borgio .  Pray thee hold . No more .  Praythee speake nearer home , who hast thou hous'd ?  I shall not dare to meddle with his glory  For feare I fall with Semele , who next ?  I saw his punctuality passe by .  That man Burgio !  You have bestowd them all in severall Roomes ?  Then first , in faire requitall of the Musick ,  I doe imagine some of them bestowd  On me , this morning e're my Love appeares  To feed their eyes , let Musick feast their eares .  Yes sir , t is granted ; and as acceptable  I yeild to none .  And I my selfe too blame —  Mistake me not good Signior . Keep your distance :  I blame my selfe to let you overweene  By my long silence , that immodesty  To be in me , that might embolden you  To your and my dishonor . Pray desist ,  And let the friendly welcome you have found  Perswade your faire construction .  Yes in sooth is it .  Nor a child neither sir , that 's lesse .  You are better read then I sir .  Sir , I must tell you now , you grow too lavish ;  So , as I feare foule language ; to' avoyd which  Let me intreat a faire departure hence .  Why should it trouble you sir ?  Now you are foule indeed , and I must plead  My priviledge against you sir , you know  I have a freedome grounded upon custome  Here in this City , for a moneth to make  Choyce of my Lodging , set what price I please  Upon my selfe ; admit what visitants  I shall thinke fit ; no other , nor no more ;  And this without controule , or least exception  Of you or any man ; secur'd by th' City ,  So safe from out-rages , that least abuse  May , on my just complaint , be punishable  In whomsoever by affront dares grive me .  Yet thus much ( for you are a Gentleman )  I 'le yeild for satisfaction unexacted :  If in this Moneths space , in that honor'd way  ( For I despaire not of a husband sir )  Of holy Marriage , I be not promov'd ;  Nor , by that time prefix'd , the great Son tenderd  ( Great as you terme 't ) for my virginity ;  And that I stoope for lesse , here is my hand ,  I will be yours as freely as mine owne  At your own price .  I am enough instructed .  Feare not I shall .  Indeed and so I doe .  Hee 's gone , at last the tedious storme is over .  I shall want day , as well as patience  T' indure and answer all the rest so largely ,  See my sprightly Frenchman ! I must looke  For a hot Onset now , though a short Skirmish .  Good sir beware idolatry .  Indeed I 'le heare no more .  Yet . Let me stay you there , and let me tell you  You have worded well your high conceipt of me ,  But in a way so low , so undeserving  A courtiers art , that I have found you none .  No , no Courtier sir ,  How can it fall in courtly understanding  That beauty can be conquerd by it's praise ?  It breeds but lesse respect , and oft times scorne  From those that are ambitious of praise  On such praise-givers . And if you came onely  Thus to pronounce my praise , you have said enough .  Sir , your further pleasure   Right sir , were you to buy a Horse or Jewell ,  You would not praise it past the price propounded .  ( I am betray'd . Hee brings the Money sure )  What 's this sir , to a thousand double Duccatts ?  You 'l say my soule is noble , then if I  ( As I protest I doe ) complaine the wants  Of even the best professors of that art .  The words are set .  Please you to read 'hem sir , and in requitall  Of such a debt , my mayd shall sing 'hem for you .  Now try your voyce , Maide .  Your skill hath made you confident ; and I  Do so much honour these endowments in you ,  That I my selfe will answer you in this .  Name you the Dance sir .  I am but weakly practis'd yet in that .  No let it be the same .  Goe play it Jacconetta , the Novella .  For so much sir as you have excell'd me  I crave your kind acceptance of my thanks .  I will not make you such a loser sir ,  But rather wish you had your money againe  Those excellencies cost .  No , I 'le speake plainly sir , these qualities  Might on some thriving Stage , and lucky legs  Bring you your money againe , winning , perhaps ,  The love of some old Lady , by stirring up  The embers of affection , rather lust .  But certes here  They will not passe for ready money sir .  My curtesie sir forbids me bid you hence ;  But having private businesse of my own  I must crave leave to leave you to the thought  Of what two thousand Duccats are .  Your blood and honour , will not feed or cloath mee .  Not upon my submission sir ?  Hee lookes that I should kneele and beg a Kisse .  I cannot doe 't : My virgin Modesty  Denyes that freedome .  You will not ravish me ! within there ! help !  No , to take off the hands of Rape and Outrage  This proud imperious Spaniard grip'd me with .  I have not sir , in my short story strayd  In the least sillable from truth , and were  The eyes of all the world fix'd upon  My seeming Levity , my mind should be  Still constant as the center to that end  Reserv'd in my free thoughts .  To keep the flesh flies off , you know my aime sir .  Upon those termes I pray sir be my Guest ,  I have by this time a slight Dinner staying .  See all in readinesse Jacconet .  NOw Lady , has your entertainment pleas'd you  In the Novella's house ? is all well yet ?  And your Mistris is over , too , I hope sir  The place is not so dangerous as it was .  You take too deepe a sense of curtesie !  But see , are these your friends ?  Your Bride and I will both supply you in it .  Neither of these is he they call Fabritio ?  Setting aside your suit sir .  And I doe wish  I had her double price in ready Duccats ,  For what she has done , and tother doe besides .  You still stand in your good conceit of me .  You are a merry Gentleman .  Wee 'l talke of that hereafter .  Gallants , I find you merry , y' are more welcome :  My man acquaints me with a present businesse  Requiring privacy . Please you , with your friends  Goe up to the Bride-chamber . There is musick .  Waite you respectively .  Pray be not jealous ,  Follow your Friends , I 'le follow you streight way .  Ex. Pi.    How dreames he of this money ? he knows nothing ,  An English Factor , say you Borgio ?  And is he so well money'd as to spare  Out of his Masters trust , so great a summe ?  Didst thou see 't ?  This way of his might serve to turn the blood  That has but any tincture of good in it  From touching such a bait , yet he thinks now  He spurres me to it . But Bravo I will fit you .  Goe call him in , goe .  Why stop you Borgio ?  Hee 's doing no such thing .  I pray thee goe , thou knowst not how the thought  Of so much gold , and the conceit o' th' Maydenhead  Lost i' the house to day sets my virginity  On edge now to be going .  What ayles the fellow troe !  Now vertue guard me .  Sir I have heard you :  Enter Paulo behinde with pistolls .   And now must let you know , t is not the sight  Of that your glorious summe can take my wonder ;  Much lesse my love or person : my amazement  Is , that a man , that beares his Makers shape ,  Indued with reason , to direct and governe  That goodly fortune ; and has such treasure given him  ( Besides his greater blessings of the mind  By well desposing of it ) to advance  This worth in deeds of vertue , should descend  Below the sense of Beasts , to part with that ,  Allotted for his livelyhood and honour  To wast it , and himselfe in beastiall Lust .  Besides sir , were it well examin'd ,  The golden summe you tender is , perhaps ,  None of your proper own : I understand  You are anothers Factor , I presume  In all your Catalogue of Merchandise  You finde no warrant to buy Maydenheads .  Is such a thing in all your bills of Lading ?  They are no way transportable , tho' you allow  For fraught and leakage halfe the worth ; and lesse  Returnable by way of exchange . How can  You take up a virginity in Venice ,  And make a London payment of it , on  Sight of your bill , or six or ten dayes after ?  Now I feare  I am insnar'd . I have but one way left  To fly from shame , or fall to utter Ruine .  Gentle sir ,  The Law hath made me yours . And I have now  No Court but Conscience to relieve me in .  If the strong passion of a Virgin soule ,  Exprest in bitterst teares , move not your pitty ,  This shall prevent your cruelty .  Keepe at that distance sir , and you shall know :  Come nearer , and I will not live to tell you .  Indeed I may not .  T is true , I am indeed a meere pretender  To the profession you suppos'd me of ;  A spotlesse Virgin ( by my utmost hopes )  And will remaine so till I am a Bride .  I am about to tell you for your pitty ,  I am a Romane borne , of good discent ;  My father noble ( of the Candiani )  How ere decay'd in fortune , ere he dyed ;  Which drew on my Misfortune : For , being betroth'd  Unto a wealthy heire , here , of this City ,  Who so journ'd then in Rome , his covetous Father  Ravishd his faith from me , to give 't another ;  And calld him hastily from Rome to Venice .  I followd him , in hope to crosse the Match .  And so regaine him ; towards which already ,  I have done something .  Not without good advise : For , by this meanes  I draw the eyes of all the youthfull Gentry ,  Not without hope to gaine a sight of him .  My price and port keepe back inferiour persons .  Nor lose I honour by it : For the strictnes  Of our Italian censure gives a virgin ,  That held familiarity with any Man ,  By way of Marriage treaty , and then forsaken ,  Lost in repute ; shee is no honest woman  Untill that man doe vindicate her honor .  Here he should find what his disloyalty  Had wrought me to ; and should restore me firme  On my first basis , or exchange a life  For mine ere we would part .  If he were lost by Marriage of another ,  I would remove with such a testimony  Of my reserved honour ( in despight  Of this my outward carriage , for my ends ;  Maugre the sterne construction of my countrey )  That strangers should receive me ; and some one  More noble then himselfe —  I should not doubt .  I cannot sir , but kindly take your offer :  But , if my first love faile me , there is one ,  A noble German , that commenc'd his suit  To me this day .  This jealous tryall now of yours ( how ere  You have exprest strong arguments of love )  Has not augmented you in my affection .  I cannot yet believe you are the Man ,  You are so chang'd from what you seem'd to day ,  Must the minde alter with the outward habit ?  Here he is man , he sayes .  How can this be ? or who can I believe ?  I 'le take your councell .  See who rings .  Exit Paulo .   VVhat divine creature , sir , was that you mention'd ?  This sounds most strangely ! Have you beene at Rome sir ?  Answer me pray sir , why could not this fall  In your discourse to day , when I related  My Life and Fortune to you ? why do you start ?  I am no shadow ; but suspect you rather ,  To be not as you seeme , the noble German  That vowd me love , dos that too startle you ?  See sir , to prove I am no aery spirit ,  I 'le trust your hand ( if you be mortall substance )  VVith so much flesh and blood as may resolve you .  VVhat 's that you say ? what aile you sir ? how i st ?  And what moves thy destraction ? Borgio , speak .  Deale plainly sir , what are you ? hee 's stupified !  Here 's no such creature , here sir , if she be  Your Daughter , this woman directed hither ,  Shee is no Harlot , but an honest Bride ;  Lawfully wed and bedded ; as may appeare  By the strong testimony of divers friends :  Call them all downe .  Speake lower , or at home sir , you know not  VVhat we are : Harke you sir — your last nights triall  Did not enough informe you .  I cannot be so happy .  O my Fabritio —  And I made happy past my height of hopes .  Yes , he is my husband .  Sir I must crave your pardon , This is he ,  My first love that I told you of .  I thanke you sir for all the harme you did me  In your Revenge — And harke you , be at peace ,  And I 'le be silent for your last nights worke .  Let me not surfet with excesse of joy ?  My brother Paulo !  'T is easily done sir , see my lov'd Fabritio  The Eunuch moore you gave me .  Not without much desert .  Here you see all , and all that came i' th' house ;  ( Since it was made mine ) in this Convention ,  I dare them not ; but give them freest leave  To speake the worst they found in the Novella . 