 NAy , but honest Shoomaker ; thy honest price .  A little too streight , I doubt . What do you think o' my boots honest Tailor .  Never fear it Tailor , you shall trust me , and please you .  And what do you think of my suite Shoomaker ? can you say as much for the Tailor as he for you .  Honest men both , and hold together ; one would little think you were so near neighbours . Well , you , have fitted me both , I must confesse . But how I shall fit you , now there 's the point .  Still both in a tale , I can not but commend your neighbourhood , I muse my Laundresse stayes ,  I sent her three or foure wayes for moneys . But do not you stay for that . I have wayes enough to pay you . I have ploughes a going that you dream not of .  I shall be rich enough ne're fear 't . I have a venter in the new soap businesse man .  Burlakin , and they may prove more troublesome then a commotion of Sailors .  O welcome , Laundresse , where 's the money .  Who 's that I prithee .  Is he come up with his crosse tricks . I heard he was to come . And that he meanes to live here altogether . He has had an aime these dozen years to live in town here , but never was fully bent on 't until the Proclamation of restraint spurr'd him up . 'T is such a Crossewill . Well , he is my father , and I am utterly undone if thou help'st me not now at a pinch , at a pinch , dear Laundresse . Go borrow me a Gown ,  and some foure or five Law-books ? for , I protest , mine are in Duck-lane . Nay , trudge , sweet Laundresse , trudge . —  Ex. Laun.   Honest Tailor and Shoemaker convey your selves away quietly , and I 'll pay you to morrow , as I am a Gentleman :  No body sayes thou art .  A trick ! as I hope for money it is no trick .  A pox o' th' boots , so my legs were out of 'hem . Would they were i' thy throat , spurres and all , you will not out .  O well said , my good Laundresse . How am I bound to thee ; yet all this wo'not do 't Laundresse . Thou must bestir thy stumps a little further , and borrow me a couple of Gownes more for these Rascals here that will not away .  Nay , svveet Laundresse , restrain thy tongue , and stretch thy feet . A couple of Govvns , good  Laundresse , and forget not caps .  Ex.   If I do novv furnish you like Civil Lavvyers , and you do not keep your countenances ; if ever you do but peep in at the Hall-door at Christmas to see the revels , I 'le have you set i' th' stocks for this beleeve it .  Have you a minde to have your money you unbelieving Rascals .  Thou hast some hope , though no faith nor trust in any man .  I cry you mercy , they are remov'd into the nevv plantation here , where , they say , are a tribe of Infidel-tradesmen , that have made a Law vvithin your selves to put no trust in Gentlemen . But beare your selves handsomely here you vvere best . I am acquainted vvith a crevv that haunts about your habitations , vvith whom I will joyne , and so batter your windows one of these nights else . — O welcom , Laundresse , how doest thou toile for me .  Now let him come , we are ready for him . Shoomaker , keep your hand underneath the  book , that the pitch do not discover you .  And Taylor , be sure you have no Needle on your sleeve , nor thread about your neck .  He 's enrred .  Remitter , I say , is where a man hath two titles , that is to say , one of an elder , the other of a later . And he cometh to the land by the later title ; yet the Law adjudgeth him to be in by the force of the elder title . If the tenant in the taile discontinue the taile , and after he diseaseth his discontinue , and so dieth seised , whereby the tenants descend to their issue , as to his Cousin inheritable by force of the taile . In this case the tenants descend , who have right by force of the taile , a Remitter in the taile taken for that in the Law , shall put and adjudge him to be in by force of descent . Pox on ye , speak something good or bad , somewhat .  Excellent Shoomaker , I say so , and again , I say , that if the tenant in the taile in feoffe his son , or his Cousin , inheritable by force of the taile , the which sonne or cousin at the time of the feoffment is within age , and after the tenant in the taile dierh , this is a Remitter to the heire in the taile to whom the feoffment is made , now Taylor .  Look either Fitzherbert , Perkins , or Dier , and you shall finde it in the second part of Richard Cordelyon . So much for Remitter . Novv I 'll put a plain home-spun case , as a man may say , vvhich vve call a moot-case .  The case is this  pull up your grounds closer and be hang'd , you are a Tailor , and you : a Shoomaker .  I put the case , I do , to you for a suit of clothes .  And to you for a paire of boots .  I have broke my day with you both . Suppose so .  You clap a Sergeant o' my back . I put in bail , remove it , and carry it up into the upper Court , with habeas-Corpus ; bring it down again into the lower Court with procedendo ; then take it from thence , and bring it into the Chancery with a Certiorari ; I ; and if you look not to it , bring it out of the Chancery again , and thus will I keep you from your money till your suite and your boots be worne out before you recover penny of me .  S'foot Shoomaker wilt thou be an Asse . I do but put a case , Have you not seen it tried .  I hope he do's but jest .  Sfoot , how shall I answer my borrow'd books ? Stay Belt . Pray Sir , do not change my books .  Why alass Sir , Had I not better keep my self within my Chamber , at my Studie , then be rioting abroad , wasting both money and time , which is more precious then money ? if you did know the inconvenience of company , you would rather incourage and commend my retir'd life , then any wayes dehort me from it .  Yes Sir ; but the times are much alter'd , and youth more corrupted now , they did not drink and wench in those dayes , but nay , o 't is abominable in these .  Sfoot the Rogue Rooksbil and his crew , I fear'd as much .  Forbear , or be hang'd , you will undo me , my father 's here . I 'll meet you anon as I am honest .  You would not believe me . Pray be civil .  I hope you may excuse me , I 'le be w' ye anon .  They are Gentlemen of my standing , Sir , that have a little over-studied themselves , and are somewhat — .  No more do I , Sir , if I knew how to be rid of 'hem .  Yes Sir .  'T is here , under my bed , Sir . — Reach it .  It would do better in Mathematical books . Sir , offer me no money , pray Sir , but for books .  Yes Sir , I acknowledge it .  You are known sufficiently for your crosse humour already ; in which I 'll try you if I can make you double this money , for this will not serve my turne .  No Sir , but I have computed that for my present use , here is too much by halfe , pray Sir , take halfe back .  Yes truly , sir .  Sfoot , who 's the Gull now ? Taylor , Shoomaker , you may go pawn your Gownes for any money I am like to have .  Very good Lavvyers both , Is my father quite gone Belt ?  Well at thy request , because thou shalt not have anger for carrying it back again , I vvill accept .  I do most Reverend Belt . and vvould be loth to crosse him , although I may as much in taking his money as refusing it , for ought I knovv , for thou knovv'st 't is his custome to crosse me , and the rest  of his children in all we do , to try and urge his obedience ; 't is an odde way : therefore to help my self I seem to covet the things that I hate , and he pulls them from me ; and makes shew of loathing the things I covet , and he hurles them doubly at me , as now in this money .  Yes , but do thou put it in his head , and I 'le pick out thy braines .  He has taken a house then .  At the Goat does he dine , sayest thou .  My crevv are gone thither too . Pray Mars vve fall not foule of one another . Well , go thy vvay , present my duty to him , I 'le follovv presentlie . Tell him I took his money vvith much unvvillingnesse .  Well Tailor and Shoomaker ; you have put me to 't , but here 's your money .  Let 's see your biil Tailor   Then good vvords vvill passe it , 7 li. 4. sh. tell your money ; yours is 14 sh. boots and Galloshes .  There 't is and 12. d. to drink .  Are you right Tailor .  There 's a shilling for you too , to spend in bread .  Not so bold as I 'm glad I 'm too well rid of you , most courteous Gentlemen .  To see what money can do ; that can change mens manners , alter their conditions : how tempestuous the slaves were without it . O thou powerful metal ! what authority is in thee ! Thou art the Key to all mens mouthes . With thee a man may lock up the jawes of an informer , and without thee he cannot the lips of a Lawyer .  Sfoot-back , Nick to your own room . Thy father 's here too , as I breath .  My Lucie too , as I live . How the devil got they acquainted ? Sure he 's his Landlord 'T is so .  Verily , sir .  But for displeasing you , I had rather have graz'd on Littletons Commons , or ha' fasted this fourtnight , then come for my repast into this Wildernesse ; but you will ha' it so   I crie them mercie , my good brother , — and my loving sister .  What Gentlewoman is this of your acquaintance , Sister ?  Have you betray'd me ?  I had else lost much sir , I have paid all dues belonging to it .  Another time , your reckoning is not yet paid perhaps .  How have you screwed this youth up into this humour , that was such a dry miserable Clown but two dayes since .  I have fastned three or foure cups upon my precise brother . I would 't were as many pottles , so it would convert him into the right way of good fellowship .  He 's above still vvith the old men . I stole from him , but to see if your Italick Mystresse vvere come yet . Your Madam .  Thy father ? yes   And so is thy Sister ; the little Rogue looks so squeamishly on me , and I on her , as we had never seen before ; but the foolish Ape out of a present affection she has taken to my Sister , has discovered to her the whole discourse of our love , and my familiarity with thee , which were enough to spoile all , if it were discovered to the old folkes , before my cards were play'd .  Thou canst not doubt me .  Such is your vertue , Sir . Well , I 'le up to 'em again before I be mist ; and when they part , I am for you again .  You are welcome to Paris brother Gabriel .  There Sir , I 'le undertake one good fellow , that has but just as much Religion as will serve an honest mans turne , will bear more wine then ten of these giddy-braind Puritanes , their heads are so full of whimseys .  And cannot men be content to take now and  then a cup , and discourse of good things by the way . As thus . Brother , here 's a remembrance ( if she be living , and have not lost her honour ) to our Cousin Dore as .  Pledge her , good brother .  I hope 't will maudlenize him .  Alas , suppose I had , what could be done ? she 's lost we see . What good could she receive by any course against him .  He 's falling back again .  Notable rascal , well sir , let him up . I know how to fit him .  Nor hinder any thing , I 'le warrant thee , he 's thine . Play Fidlers , t'other dance .  It is my father , Gentlemen ?  Nor ever like to have any , fir , that 's the comfort . We shall live at the lesse charge . 