 What 's a clock Bridget .  Nothing is past to those , that have a mind and means .  Here forsooth .  I warrant you forsooth .  Here forsooth .  Here , Lady .  Yes indeed , Madame Josina Crasie .  O , they must forsooth .  Marrie forsooth , because that Men , when they marry , become but halfe men : And the other half goes to their Wives . And therefore she is called Woman ; where before she was call'd but Mayd .  Truly , oftentimes , Beast . Which part the wife gives to boot , in exchange of her name . One knocks .  Yonder 's a Gentleman craves admittance to converse with you .  A fair-spoken , comely , modest Gentleman he is .  Here he comes forsooth .  O , are you here Sir ? I was to seek you . My old Mistresse would speak with you instantly .  Our day of conjunction ? Mary faugh Goodman Fiste . Our day of conjunction ?  Did not you once swear you had money ?  I hope , dear Love , you will not forget your affection to me now .  Now am I but a dead woman .  Would you speak with any here Sir ?  May not I deliver your mind unto her Sir ?  O she expects him most impatiently — Pray enter Sir . She 's ready for you , there before you Sir —  A businesse of mine owne makes me wait here .  I think I saw my learned Love make this way .  But he ( alas ) though small in fleshly growth ,  By reason of his high preferment is  Now growne too great for me .  'T is hee ; I know his stature ,  Though not his cloaths , the Ensigns of his greatness ,  In which how big he seems , though but a sprawler !  So cloaths can make men greater , but not taller .  He 's deep in study ; I dare not interrupt him .  Most worshipfull Sir , welcome from Court , If your poor Handmaid may presume to say so .  In the first place let me beseech you Sir ,  Vouchsafe your answer to a longing Maid ,  That can be comforted in nothing more ,  Then the good newes of your prosperity ;  Of which I hope a part at least to be ,  Preferr'd by your late promise to your service .  His Court advancement makes him mad , I fear .  What pity 't is that honour and high places  Should make men lose their wits , sometimes their heads !  Dear Sir , though you are highly dignified ,  Forget not the preferment , that you promis'd me ,  To scratch your head ; to make your bed ; to wash  Your shirt ; to pick your toes , and to evacuate  Your Chamberpot .  You Suppository .  How gravely and sententiously he speaks .  Would you that have taught Greeke , and whip't great boyes , come backe to your Horn-book , and let down your Gascoines to me , that would , if I had you , bee more tyrannous then any Pedant that ever reign'd since the dayes of Dionysius : Besides here is my choice , with my Master and Mistresses leave , Jeremies brother . 