 my boy Negh , Sonne Nehemiah .  F'sooth .  But mother f sooth , when I have her ,  Will she play with me at peg-top ?  And she ha' not good box and steel , I shall so grull her .  And then at Mumbledepeg I will so firk her .  Whate're I say , I have a meaning though .  But yet , I doubt , I shall not forsake all  My old fagaries in a yeare or two .  Amardla , f'sooth , I think so ; I Amardla .  For I did beat a boy as high as my selfe  Yesterday , with one hand .  The boy had but one hand f'sooth . I us'd both .  Who f'sooth , the crying Knight , he that has wept  E're since his Lady di'd ; and mournes in colours ;  Speaks nothing but in verse , and gives me Ballats ;  The old Knight Powel , that pronounces what d ee call 'hem ?  But is not his Neece too big for me ? I would be loth  To be over-match'd .  I 'll give her the time of the day or the night  I warrant her , come at what houre she will .  Why if I eat not all before she come .  ( And she must try her , if I do'nt ) I 'll ask her  If she can speak with plums in her mouth ; and then  I 'll offer her a long one and two round ones ,  And nod at her .  Mother , I know both what to say and do  I trust I am not to be taught to wooe .  But heark you mother f'sooth ; I am told that you  Beare a moneths minde to that Sir Whimlby ,  And a crosse match is talk't on betwixt you  And the old Knight , and me and his young Neece .  O ho — is 't so ?  Let me but see how you will handle him now  And mark how I 'le come over her with small Jerks .  Noble Mrs. Blith .  Welcome , sweet Lady .  Still weeping for a husband .  Mother , she puts me on 't ,  She laughes .  Amardla , so I will , and if you laugh  At me , I 'll laugh at you again , so I will .  Are you there with me ? I 'le be here with you then .  Will you eat any Sugar-plums ? no , I 'le eat 'em for you .  There 's ha , ha , ha , ha , for you now .  Nor I you .  Amardla , that I cannot .  She is no wife for me , she has broke my Jewes-trump ; look you here else . And almost broke my head with one of my bounding stones .  And yet after all that , and for all I offered to teach her to shoot in my Trunk and my Stone-bowe , do you think she would play with me at Trou , Madam ? no , nor at any thing else . I 'll none of her .  And yet I 'le have her too . If she will promise to do as I would have her hereafter .  Mother , — she has spit Amard just in my mouth .  My mother is as good as your mother , so she is , for all she 's dead .  Mother , Amardla , the more I look on her , the better I like her .  Mother , come away , mother .  Pray f'sooth come away , I am afear'd she 'l beat you .  O Lud , O mother f'sooth , look you , mine Uncle holds me .  F'sooth mother he mocks me , oh . —  Ha , ha . ha .  There 's a new Aunt indeed ! she brought me nothing .  EPhraim , thou hast made me a man , both without , witnesse this sword and within , witnesse this precious book , which I have gotten almost by heart already .  I know the meaning of that too , Ephraim . That 's once a man and twice a childe . But if I turne childe again , while I have teeth in my head , I 'le give Mrs. Blithe leave to dig 'hem out with Sugar-plums , as she almost did these two of 'hem yesterday , with her knuckles . I would they stuck both in her bum for 't , till I were married to her , and that shall be shortly , they say , I wo' not turne boy again for that trick .  Thou mayest be sure on 't Ephraim : for if I would turne boy again , I ha' not wherewithal to set up again . Thou sawest that , assoon as I had tasted the sweetnesse of this delicious book here , I tore and burnt all my ballats , as well the godly as the ungodly . In my conscience as many as might have furnish't three Bartholomew Faires , and then for love of this sword , I broke and did away all my storehouse of tops , gigs , balls , cat and catsticks , pot-guns , key-guns , trunks , tillers , and all ; and will I turne boy again canst think ? yet I am half sorry , being towards a wife , that I did  not keep 'hem for my children : some money might have been sav'd by 't . And that is a manly and a good husbandly consideration , I take it . But hang covetousnesse : There comes not a mouth into the world , but there 's meat for t ; and if I finde 'em not play games , their mother will finde friends , that shall , for them and her selfe too   Amardla Ephraim , 't will be hard to compasse . For the old Knight will never let me have his Neece , unlesse he have my mother . He meanes to truck for her , though , I confesse , I had rather call thee father then any man , I know , yet I know not how to bring it about , unlesse he marry her first ; and then she be weary of him , and take thee afterwards to mend her match . I think it must be so , Amardla Ephraim .  Peace , my mother comes .  I hear her neighing after me , I 'le do all I can for thee , Amardla Ephraim .  Hang bawbles , burn ballets , I am a man , and defie boyes tricks .  Tell me of toyes ? I have a sword : offer me ballets ? I have a book . Speak to me of Sir Swithin , I 'le talk to you of Ephraim that gave me these blessings ; and is fitter to be my father , ( so he is ) then the foolishest Knight of 'em all .  A ha !  I 'le tell you first . It is a book all of Bulls , Jests and Lies Collected by an A. S. Gent.  Mother f'sooth , there be such things in it ! If you never reade it , it is the rarest book that ever you read in your life . Open it where you will , and you shall learn something . As here now . One refusing to eat Cheese-cakes , was ask't his reason . He told them he lov'd the flesh well , but was afeard of the bones . Then here 's the next to 't . One asking whence Lobsters were brought : his fellow repli'd , one might easily know their countrey by their coat . They are fetch 't from the red sea . Now would I might never eat more of 'hem , as well as I love 'hem , if I know what Cheese-cakes were made of , or from whence Lobsters came before .  Laugh on , good Mother . And while you are in the merry mood , let me speak a good word for Ephraim . I have a minde f'sooth , because he has made me a man , to make him my father , f'sooth .  Pray f'sooth hear him speak . He can speak Poetry ( he sayes ) as well as Knight Whimlbie . Speak Ephraim .  Mother f'sooth , Is it not fine ?  I must out too then , mother I am afraid , oh . —  O but she sayes she will not have me .  Now , now , she spat the word out of her mouth . And I say , if she ha' not me , you shall whine both your eyes out before you have my mother ; and see ne're the worse , I warrant you .  A crosse marriage , or no marriage , I say still .  Yes , and I have a sword , and you ha' got ne're a one .  Say not so , mother . I love her better and better still .  I never had play-fellow i my life , but we fell out and in agen .  And I must and will marry her , I take my death on 't aforehand .  Loe you there , mother , Let her marry me behind my back then : And when we are marri'd , I 'le make her stick to 't before my face , I warrant you ; or if she will make back-play . I 'le play at nothing but backgammons with her .  Agreed again of all hands . But look how she turnes and keeps cut like my Sparrow . She will be my back Sweet-heart still I see , and love me behind .  But he shall not mother if you love me : for I mean to perfect my dancing there ; and to learn French there ; For I mean when I am married to travel into France . But I will first be perfect in the tongue I shall learne it the sooner when I am there you know . Pray let us go to th' A comedy , what d ee call it ?  By your leave , sir .  Are you the Regent of this Academy ?  Mother f'sooth , is not this French ?  That goes like English Mrs. Blithe . I could learn some of that me thinks .  What! and her masque on ?  What should I say to one I never saw .  Lady , you are most suspiciously accoutred , I speak it boldly .  Auspicously encountred woman , I say .  What should I say to that now ?  Pray f'sooth , can you teach me a complement to offer you sugar-plums , and eat 'hem my selfe : to save my manners and my plums too ?  I would you could lend me a sight of 'hem forsooth , I love such things devoutly .  And shut in the Squirrel and the Paraquitoe to be stifled , shall she ? O that I could see hem !  Mother , it is my naughty Aunt , so 't is .  That came I to learn ,  And to speak French , do you think sir , you can bring  My mouth to handle the French tongue handsomly .  Pray sir , if you can like the Ladies daughter of Paris properlie .  Mother f'sooth . Here 's a man now for you to make my father !  Beyond the Knight or Ephraim !  Well acted mother .  And very well acted Nant .  Exceeding well acted o'both sides .  Mother and Aunt f'sooth , Amardla you have done 't  Better then the two School-Mystresses to day  Could do their Whatshicomes , their Complements  I think you call 'hem . But I ha' lost my Mystresse  To complement withal . Mrs. Blithe Tripshort  Has out-strip't me , Amardla that she has .  He 's crying all about the house for her ,  But cannot finde her . How shall I have her now ?  Then he 's  Naught too . You sha'nt have him .  Think of the Gentleman , mother that out-fac'd  The Frenchman for me . I would you had a thousand such in France now .  And I am here you see . He cannot see  He has no more eyes then a sucking pig ,  And yet he weeps like a roasted one .  Perhaps to me .  Behinde my back you said she would do so .  And before him came in your brother Matchil .  You mean  His Neece , pray Vncle did you meet her ,  She 's gone away too , after my Cousin Joyce ,  And the French maid , I think , she is here agen .  Amardla , wipe your eyes , and look Sir Swithin ,  The tother honest Gentleman has found her .  And let him take her for his paines for me .  That 's the French name on 't , Uncle , 't is in Dutch  call'd All-to-mall ; and I call it in English .  Omnium Gatherum , 't is the daintiest daunce .  We had it here to day : I and my mother ,  My Aunt and all can daunce in 't , as well as the best .  With every one in their own footing . Now observe . 