 And by that Knowledge , you your selfe soone rotten .  Aside .   O! could these Creatures grow still towards ripenesse ;  Or , being ripe , abide so , and no further ,  What excellent fruit they were !  I say among the twenty thousand Curtezans  In and about this City , none becomes  The dressing , or the habit like your selfe ;  Your most unparallel'd selfe ! But , noblest Lady ,  Thinke t is your person beautifies the Dresse ,  Not it , your person .  I thanke you more then if you had possess'd  Me of the value of that sum propos'd .  You need not doubt me .  I have an army royall  Of Princely spirits , ready for incounter .  I have encamp'd them each in severall quarter .  Here lies the no lesse politick then stout  Italian force , and there your sprightly French ;  Here the brave Spaniard , there the German bold ;  Here the Polonian , and Sclavonian there ;  Persian and Grecian —  'T is not your house can hold , ( would I admit 'em )  One of each severall nation would throng in  To make his battery on your virgin Fort .  The rich Piazza , on her greatest Mart  Boasts not more Nations ; nor St. Marke himselfe  The understanding of more Languages  Then I ( could I find house-roome ) could receave ,  To be made one by your interpretation  O what a Daring glasse is sparkling beauty ;  Fetching ambition from above the pitch  Of towring Eagles , or Sky-touching Larks  Down with a glance into the Nets of Love !  I have cull'd from the pack a speciall prince ;  Foure glittering Gallants ; one of Italy ,  For our deare Countries sake ; But then a Monsieur ,  A joviall French-man , all of flame and spirit .  A Spaniard next , that , to adorne his pride ,  Weares an Epitome of both the Indies .  And did you note his stiffe reservednesse ?  He dares not cough for breaking of his chaine ,  But then there is a Dutchman , ( Cargo lustick ! )  A jolly strong chind German , princely borne ;  A Landsgrave at the least ; whose very bluntnesse  Promises more then the sharp-set Italian ,  The fiery Frenchman , or the doughty Diego  In all their eager pursuit .  O like fierce Beasts , from sent of one another .  Is it perform'd sir ? have you done the feat ?  Just as the Musick playd I warrant you  Sir , 't was a moving Lesson ; playd to th' life .  We struck it home , that you might do so too .  As if you had not done the doe you came for !  What pretty wayes can Gentlemen find out  To save their moneys ! 'T is worth praise in some ,  That have but little , or come hardly by 't ,  By travaile , study , or laborious toyle ,  Deare shifts sometimes , and dangerous wayes with hazard —  But for you Gallants , that have , as it were  Wealth above with borne with you , and still growing  Up with you , past the reach of your expences ;  And never sweat , but for your exercise ,  Or what your exercises bring you to !  For you to thinke your pleasures costly ; faine  Excuse for petty fees , now the great charge  Is paid , and your desire satisfied —  Alas sir , what is a poore Duccatoun  After a thousand Duccats ? —  Would you had not ; 'lesse my reward were better .  See , see , the bed made smoth againe and all !  ( O precious craft ! ) as here had nothing been !  Well would yee were all as wise in greater matters .  It seemes then yet  You are not cloyd with her deliciousnesse .  Have you not in that a double meaning sir ?  Y'have satisfied me , and perhaps my art  May in your absence worke a little for you .  My profit pricks me to it .  Serviteur Monsieur .  The feare of thee is past . I was almost  In a cold sweat : but all the danger now ,  Lyes on the tother side o' th' house ; my Don  My hot Goat-liver'd Diego , should he now  Discharge his Pistols on her , they would prove  More forcible then Cannon-shot on me .  Enter Pedro , Victoria .   Faith quit me of suspect . How big hee lookes !  As if he scorn'd repulse . If he grow violent  I 'le bring the Duchman in to coole his pride ,  And set them by the eares for our Low Countries .  What! is the great some tender'd ?  Doe you want hands to tell your money Mistris ?  Signior you must not gripe nor grope here  Under the sum prefix'd ; two thousand Duccats .  We have arithmetique to receave them by  In your own Pistolets , or peeces of Eight  In Rialls , if you please ; but not one single one  To be abated , my most thrifty Don ;  Whom I cannot abuse enough me thinks ,  I have seene one in your shape so well presented .  Not in defence of honour deare Don Tarquin .  Preventing Rape and Murder .  Not at this distance sir ,  Besides here 's ayd .  Be so my politique Don . This Hans has snapt her ;  The Dutch man carries her from your great claime :  And this may be an ominous portent  Against your title to the Netherlands ,  It may hold in the great worke sir , as well  As in this small assay .  Nor they heare me not my noble Signior ,  I 'le tell you for your satisfaction  This Alinanie is a younker that would marry her ,  And shee nor I durst beare it otherwise ,  ( Knowing by chance he slipp'd into the house ,  And overheard us ) when you come againe  I will informe you further , you shall finde  My information worthy of a fee .  That 's three pence sterling , you are bounteous sir ,  So , now , looke bigge and vanish .  Am I a prophet ? sure the Dutchman's tane  In a chast snare indeed . I did but forge it  For an excuse to calme and rid the Spaniard ,  And he seemes to prevent my fiction : yet  Presumption shall not sway me . Womens wiles  Are oft times past prevention , and men catch  Sence of the wrongs , which to prevent they watch .  I cry you mercy sir , are you Signior Horatio ?  I tooke you sir this morning for a Monsieur .  I thanke you for my Duccatoun .  Good sir ! are you here too ? I thank you sir ,  You payd me your entrance , but no parting fee .  Sir , to intreat this Gentleman to bring  With him one Signior Piso , and Fabritio —  Beyond my hopes ! Good sir , are you here too ?  Cry mercy sir : you would not these should know  Nor shall they ( I feare it not ) but hark you sir .  I am sure I rejoyce in these Dollors , that you  Give me to day , and are as certaine , that  My Mistris wish'd a better dinner for you  For frighting of the Spaniard with your fireworks .  But , by your strangers it seemes you repent  The Marriage offer that you made my Mistres .  Fortune direct you to no worse a wife ,  And so I leave you to your choyce .  Only your selfe , and briefly from Francisco .  Where but at our house sir ? he and his Bride  Craving your company and those Gentlemen  I nam'd unto you .  For no disparagement unto their worths , sir ,  But private reasons yet unknown to me  Wherein you shall be satisfied at your comming ,  I brought the Priest to 'em :  And saw them lawfully coupled , and before  Sufficient witnesses , that saw 'em chamberd ,  Shee was his own Church-sure before I left 'em ,  And he has made her Cock-sure , sir by this time ,  Or else he is a Bungler .  But where is that Fabritio ?  I am gone sir —  No , but hee 's sent for ; and comes instantly .  Yes Mistris , a brave fellow .  Oh hee 's a master here himselfe . They are  Abroad , the royalist Nation of the World .  What rich Venetian Rarity has not  The English Money-masters purchac'd from  Princes and States , to beare home as their triumphs ?  And for their pleasures — but I 'le say no more ;  Hee thinks I stay too long for him to wait  Without , with so much money .  Most brightly shining ! Hee 's now telling it  In the next roome ! He comes not to tender  The value of it in fine qualities  Like your suppos'd Monsieur : but in cash !  Cash ! cash of Gold ! Oh t is a tempting sight ;  Able to damne a Noble womans honour .  What 's your descent ? But poore I make no question ;  Why , this will set you up and make you noble .  Now my Blood and Braine ,  Be strong and sodaine , stay .  To see him weigh his gold . Oh dainty sight !  He brought his weights in 's pocket : just Gentleman  He will be sure you shall not want a graine  Of your full price of sweet damnation .  No , no , I have it now .  Are you so ready ? then I fly .  I 'le trust thee now . Thou art a noble wench ,  Thou hadst kiss'd Death by this else . Now I 'le trust thee .  Mistris the German —  I say he is without , and craves to see you .  Good sir depart and make roome for your selfe  Your proper selfe to enter the Dutch Prince .  Yes in your tother beard sir .  Hans Snortanfart , are you not ? well I can but warn you ,  If you will needs stand to the taking off  A mans good name from him before his face ,  Then take what followes , I will fetch him in  Mistris , you were best be out of sight a while :  Your presence with this stranger may whet up his fury  To cut all our throats else .  For sir I 'le tell you , if you had but seene  How he worried a Spaniard to day , you would  Have beene able at your returne to make  As many of your Countreymen , as thrive  By serving of the States to laugh ifaith .  I tell you yet againe  You were best be gone before the He indeed  Come in to chace you after him .  See his impatience pulls him in already .  Shee is at hand , but first here is a stranger ,  A most strange stranger that sayes he is you sir .  What can this Rascall meane ?  Dos shee fright you sir ?  What appeares shee to you ?  Blesse us ! more madnesse yet !  VVhat may you meane ? Here is no sorcery ,  This woman's Flesh and Blood .  You may depart , pray hinder not the house .  I know not what to say to ' him .  Horror and shame invades us , all the house  Is round beset with officers . The Magistrates ,  Are entring now , for what , or whom they search  I cannot guesse , unlesse this be some Murderer  Slipt in , to draw our lives in question .  The Spanyard 's with 'hem too that took th' affront  By the supposed Dutchman here to day ;  And he that fain'd himselfe to be that Dutchman  Desires their aid against this unknown person .  And for the Marriage sir , it is as lawfull  As if your selfe had given her in St. Marks .  I 'le fetch the Priest t' avouch it .  May I say boldly you are man and wife ?  No verier Rogue then my selfe sir .  I doe pronounce them lawfull man and wife .  Then cast your eys on me , who dare maintain  My Priest-hood lawfull ; it being deriv'd  From th' holy Order of St. Augustine ?  Thy brother and thy father , vertuous sister .  Be ever subject of my dearest care ;  And pardon me , who ( jealous of thine honour  Inflam'd by the same heart , of the same blood :  For we are all the Relicts of our Parents )  Watch'd nearely , and pursu'd thy scape from Rome .  For which I had good warrant , Gentlemen  See there my dispensation with th' allowance  Of all the holy brotherhood of my Covent .  My ends were faire , though in this uncouth way  Tho' ( heaven I beg thy pardon ) as my care  Was to preserve her life and more her honour ;  Fearing her violent and abused spirit ,  Might have made wrack of either , or of both ,  I once had secret purpose to have ta'ne  Her Life , in case shee had forsooke her honour ;  And with her cut off Candianies Line ,  Which now branch'd here , may touch the worlds end  With faire succession ! Be you blest for ever .  And now , grave sirs , let me intreat your likings ,  And cheerefull reconcilement to your Children :  That so you may your Childrens , Children see ,  Crownd by the prayers of your prosperity .  All 's well accorded then . Wee all are Friends ,  And may Priests travaile never to worse ends . 