 I cannot think the Court must hold 'm both  At once , less they were reconcil'd , which is  As much unlikely : what do you think my Lord ?  Yes , and means to hurry her away from  Court this night : I heard him threaten it .  Now that shee 's ripe and ready for your use ,  Like fruit that cryes , Come eat me . I le not boast  The pains I took to fit her to your Appetite , before she saw you .  At first sight of her Feature , I foresaw  She was compliable to your affection .  Then by discourse I found she was ambitious ,  I ply'd her then with Pills that puff'd her up  To an high longing , till she saw the hopes  She had to grow by . Pray stand close , they come .  Do but your Majesty observe that , and think  VVhat pains I took with her .  She vexes him handsomelie .  Hail , my Soveraign Queen .  Believe it Madam ,  Joyn your attention but vvith one hours patience ,  And you shall hear the gen'ral Voice o' th' Kingdom  Give you that stile , vvith large and loud allowance .  Fairly , thus :  Eulalia , for now I must no more  Give her the Title that belongs unto  Your Execellence , of Queen .  Eulalia is brought unto the Bar , accus'd ,  Convicted of that high offence , that instantlie  Shall pull that Judgement on her , that shall crush  Her into nothing .  That vvas my care , it behoov'd me to work the VVitnesses , vvho swore ( in brief ) most bravely , that they heard Lord Sforza , vvhom you also may forget now to call Father .  They swore , I say , they heard that Sforza boast  The knovvledge of the Queen in carnal Lust .  No , but it serv'd to put  The question to her , Was it true or not ?  No , cries the Queen , nor can I think that Sforza  Would lay that scandal on himself and me .  Those Witnesses were two cashier'd Lieutenants  That Sforza should have hang'd for Mutinies  In the late war , but threw 'em by , it seems ,  To serve him in this Office : me they cost  Five hundred Crowns apiece , and well they got it .  But where I left : the Queen denies their Oath .  And though it had been true that Sforza had  Affirm'd as much , that had not found her guilty .  Two dainty devils  Birds , a Doctor and a Midwife , who accus'd  Themselves for Bawds i' th' Action , and depos'd  I know not how many , how many , how many times ,  They saw 'em link'd in their unlawful pleasures .  These were the Queens own people , and deserv'd  A thousand Crowns apiece , and had it instantly ,  Afore-hand too .  She denied all , but in such a patient way ,  After her foolish fashion , that it gave strength  To th' Evidence against her ; then she wept  For their iniquity , and gave them a God forgive ye .  And so attends the censure of the Court ,  VVhich straightway will be given : they 'l be set  Before my coming .  Away with them : out of the gates , away .  The Fool my Lord shall stay : the Queen ask'd for him .  Let 's see , Sir , I will see .  No Sir , you shall take them with you , and a whip for advantage , unless you 'l stay and serve the Queen .  Let the Fool go my Lord , 't is but a Fool the less ,  For he 'll get wit by it , to wish himself here again .  Farewell Fool , take your Trinkets with you .  Most Mighty Soveraign .  Greatest and best of Queens ! All ?  I onely look for the poor womans Pardon  That kill'd her Husband for his gelding the Priest .  I finde it in your Gifts , my bounteous Goddess .  And would presume that  I my self were worthy  A place i' th' Kalendar , might I do you Service ,  That merited the smallest of your Graces .  Who , sacred Deitie ?  O Eulalia ; yes , the very House : 't is in your Majesties way now , as you pass to Nicosia : the King is ready , Madam , and calls away ; he longs to be at the end of his journey , to perform his Duty in the three Grants belong to you .  Eulalia , Madam ?  O let me take new spirit from your hand ,  And say unto your self , She is sure dead .  But the King comes . I am enough inspir'd .  And in a menacing way : Now what may be  Conjectur'd by such words , from men whose looks  Shew discontent against your Mightiness ,  Rests most considerable .  I flie , my Soveraign .  We shall have , Madam .  They were the same exasperate cashier'd Souldiers  That sware so valiantly against Eulalia .  Many that dare not fight ,  Dare do a murther Madam , such a tame one too .  I am confident they have kill'd her : however , I have done my best .  Her first months Majesty hath wip'd out  The memorie of all her former dayes .  I must not lose her though : this hand then soon  Must do the work , be 't not already done . 