 More sick in mind then body , by th' opinion ,  ( Not onely of the skilful Doctors , but ) of all  That come about him .  You are too sharp Disanius . There 's a means ,  As milde as other of the Kings clear Acts ,  In agitation now , shall reconcile  All to a common peace no doubt .  Stay : Here comes Stratocles .  He 's deep in meditation .  Cease my Lords this strife .  The King may hear on 't , whose perplexities  Already are too grievous . Pray be silent ,  The king approaches .  What strange confusions this ? Or whither will  You run by several wayes ? Philargus one ,  Another Philocles ; a third cries Stratocles .  In this you say you 'l have no king at all .  This must be reconcil'd , or you pull ruine  Upon your selves . He , whom the king is pleas'd  To give his daughter to must be your King .  'T was well those factious heads were wrought to come  Before the King to finde his clemencie ,  And probabilily that these were living .  My Lords , here 's two commands ;  One , that you not contend to gain the jewel ;  The other , that you both pursue your fortune .  Both these commands are thus to be obey'd ;  Contend not for her as to violate  Your unexampled friendship , which you are  Renown'd for ore all Greece ; And both pursue  Your fortune in her without eithers grudge ,  At tothers happiness in her choice .  Ye Gods be now auspicious .  Let my mildness tell you ,  You are irreverent before the King ,  Who has not been forgetful of your worth ,  Nor slow in your reward . Then moderate  Your heat with counsel ; and be first assistant  Unto the publick good : So shall you merit  The first regard in honours and affairs  Of private nature .  Their sublimity  In matters of the future seldom stoops  To humane apprehension ; yet vouchsafes  To answer our demands : but chides withall  Our too much incenss with obscurity .  Your grace however may presume , where they  Shal deign to spend a word , and take an offering ,  It is a certain augury of good .  We have dispatch't a hundred several posts  To every coast and angle of your Kingdom :  No way of finding her is left unsought .  Yet a Rumor  Is spread about the Court ; they are gone to fight .  Against themselves . Nay more , that they  Have fought , and both are slain .  Indeed you do not well  To move the King , or to perplex the Lady  Now in their sorrows fulness .  Her sons are dead ,  And the Kings daughter lost .  'T is said so .  Y' are happy , Sir ,  In his refusal and in their request .  They are fair predictions of ensuing joyes  To you , your daughter , and the Kingdom , If  I may be worthy to divine so much .  Nor let your passion Master you great , sir , side ,  As sodain grief does her . But give a little  Scope to her sorrow . Shee will soon return  And meet her Reason in obedience  To your desires .  'T is good that you Varillus clear your conscience  And , if you had confederates in the fact ,  Give up their names . 