 It shall be my care .  Not since the Rape  Of Hellen I 'm perswaded . I have search't  With narrow eyes ( as I may say ) with care ,  And diligence in most secret places .  And can no way inform my self , what is  Betide of the young Damosels , or old Squire .  Your Neece , and the French Virgin , and the man  Unworthy to be call'd your brother Strigood .  Doubtlesse 't was his plot  To work upon your Ladiships good nature  To harbour them , that he might take th' advantage  Of stealing them away .  To do ? much may be done by his seducements ,  On two such tender Virgins , though he should  But plant them in our suburbs : but my feare  Is that he has transported them beyond seas  Into some Nunnery . Your Ladiship  Knows he is adverse in Religion .  Satan will work .  The stronger in him , then to their subversion .  He 's busie , Madam .  That is , his Ballet , or his Jewes Trump . No ,  Madam . He is busie at his exercise of Armes  With a new Casting top , a Cat and Catstick ,  I bought and brought him home .  I hope ,  Your Ladiship can say since I have had  The Government of him under your Ladiship ,  I have been careful of the Gentleman ,  And have his love withal so much , that I  Dare say ( I hope you 'll pardon the comparison )  That had you married me ( which was as likely  As that your brother would have ta'ne his Maid .  I think that Mr. Nehemiah would not  Have run away in hatred of our Match ,  As Mrs. Joyce . it seems , hath done of theirs .  I hope your Ladiships pardon , I understand  My duty .  I have given her there a touch of my affection .  Who knowes how it may work ?  'T is a good care . And Madam , by the way ,  Let me advise , that since his riper yeares  Require , and that faire Propositions  Of marriage are tender'd for him , that  We gently by degrees , do take him off  From childish exercise , indeed plaine boyes play .  More manly would become him .  I humbly  Beseech your Ladiships pardon , I will call  Sweet Mr. Nehemiah to your worship .  Madam , Sir Swithen Whimlby and his Neece ,  Mrs. Blith Tripshort .  Then all my hopes are frustrate .  She offers up her selfe ; now may the proverb  Of proffer'd service light upon her .  Is 't come so near ; I 'le crosse it , or my star  Drop crosses on my head . O vain , vain woman ,  To doat on Poetry in an old man .  Ladies may love it in the young and bold ,  And when they are sick give gally-pots of gold ,  For cordial Electuaries to chear  Their crop-sick Muses ; but to an old and sere  Man that out-lives his labours , who can be  So vain to give her self away but she .  I had been sitter for her , and I 'le watch  Occasion yet , perhaps , to crosse the match ,  I can turn Poet too .  But sir , beware you fall not back again Into your childish follies : but go forwards In manly actions : for non progredi est regredi .  I hope you will not .  I 'm glad to heare such good things to come from you ,  And hope that now your judgment 's strong enough  To manage my affair . You know my minde , sir .  Now you flie out again , that 's as impossible , as 't is unlawful .  Madam .  Madam , Fa●re truth have told  That Queens of old  Have now and then  Married with private men .  A Countesse was no Blusher ,  To wed her Usher .  Without remorse  A Lady took her Horse -  Keeper in wedlock . These did wisely know ,  Inferiour men best could their work below .  Nay , Madam , more then so , I 'le further go   His instrument being drawn , I must put up my pipe and be gone .  I hope the crosse marriage is crost . This is untoward wooing .  I say she is i' th house .  Madam , that cannot be , for I have seen  All that went out , or came into the house ▪  Since you . Here came a Church man in ere while .  Yes , with others . 