 Wee 'll leave you to take private farewell of your Wife , Mr. Crasie .  Farewell good Mr. Crasy .  VVhat , does thy fist gape for mony from me ?  For a Gallant of fashion to break , for a Gallant of fashion ? Dost thou know what a Gallant of fashion is ? I 'll tell thee . It is a thing that but once in three Moneths has money in his Purse ; A creature made up of Promise and Protestation : A thing that foules other mens Napkins : towseth other Mens Sheets , flatters all he feares , contemns all he needs not , sterves all that serve him , and undoes all that trust him . Dost ask me mony , as I am a Gallant of fashion , I do thee Curtesie , I beat thee not .  T is pittie but thou shouldest loose thy Freedom for it : you Tradesmen have a good Order in your Citty , Not to lend a Gentleman money without a Cittizen bound with him : But you forsooth scorne Orders ! By this light , t is pitty thou loosest not thy Freedome for it . VVell , when I am flush , thou shalt feel from mee , Farewell . Prithee learne to have some witt . A handsome streight young fellow , grown into a pretty Bear , with a proper bodyed VVoman to his VVife , and cannot beare a Braine ! Farewell . Dost heare ? Be rul'd by me , Get money , do , Get money and keep it ; wouldst thrive ? Be rather a knave then a Fool . How much dost say I ow thee ?  Thou art in my Debt . I have given the Counsell worth threeskore , Dog-cheap , well I 'll rent the odde mony .  A lustie young wench , they say : A Cornish Girle ; able to wrastle downe stronger Chines then any of ours .  Prettie well for a younger Brother ; worth 7 or 8 thousand pound .  You are a married man , and cannot Rivall me ; I would not else be so open to you .  I have intelligence , that never failes me , shee came to town neither but very lately ; and lodg'd at Mr. Wolseys .  Like enough . He may aime at her : But shee will be hit by none but a Gentleman , that I heare too Oh shee has a fierce Ambition to a Ladyship , though her late Husband was a Tanner .  Sure , hee 's about to turne himselfe into a Gentleman to winne to the Widdow !  Mr. Wolsie ! Well met . How does your faire Guest at home , Mrs. Tryman ?  Why speak you not Mr. Wolsie ? How does the Widow ?  Or Love , perhaps of you Mr. Wolsie .  You may in a short time .  Harke hither Mr. Wolsie .  Mr. Wolsie , I would you had her with all my heart ; you shall not want my good word and best wishes .  In earnest I , and as I am a Gentleman .  Mr. Sneakup . well met .  I only wish your health , Lady ; and that it may , or might have been my happiness to sue to you for Love ; as I do now to the highest power for Life .  I , was it not ?  As I can best witnesse ; And feares you enjoy not the libertie of a Woman , since your Husbands departure .  Your Brother having promis'd too , to conduct you to Court .  I 'll be hang'd if this Doctor be not of her smock Counsell .  Sure Sir , you use some Dormitaries . Best shave your head , and 'noint it with Oyl of Roses .  Or have you not seen a spirit sir ?  And there instruct us in the passages of this cozenage .  Adieu Mr. Sarpego . Lure your braines backe againe .  Mrs. Crasie : Hist Mrs. Crasie .  O hat are you Sir ?  Yes :  But what sayes my utmost hope , the end of my ambition ?  The more honor for her to redeem me .  Her husband ! Alas poor fly ; onely made to be suck'd and forsaken . His wife has the life-blood of her fortunes in her , and I 'le be her cupping-glasse .  Conscience ! All things rob one another : Churches poule the People , Princes pill the Church ; Minions draw from Princes , Mistresses suck Minions ; and the Pox undoes Mistresses ; Physitians plague their Patients ; Orators their Clients ; Courtiers their Suitors , and the Devill all . The water robs the earth , earth choakes the water : fire burns ayre , ayre still consumes the fire .  Since Elements themselves do rob each other ,  And Phoebe for her light doth rob her Brother ,  What i st in man , one man to rob another ?  Death man , they are my Exchecquer , my Rent : Why I have no possession but my Estate taile . And at for Crasy , he has no wit ; he was created a foole , to have Knaves work upon him : a fellow made to have some pity , and all wrong ; he had ever an open Purse , and now an empty . He made it a common hole , every Gallant had his fingers in it . Every man lov'd his Fortune , squeez'd it , and when it was unjuic'd , farewell kind heart . I confess I owe him a good turn : I le pay 't his Wife . He kept her alwaies exquisitely neat ; temptingly gallant , and as a protested Cuckold should do , about his degree and means sumptuously proud . Her Eye artificially spirited , her Cheek surphuled , her Teeth blanch'd , her Lip painted , her Neck carkanetted , and her Brest bar'd almost to her Belly . And shall a peece , thus put out to sale , stand unattempted , as not worth the purchase .  If I could but make shew of a Gift , or present one —  Pish , t weare all mine again , and all that she had besides . And troth , I think she is wealthy .  Nay , t is an easie Female : He , that has her , has all . What should I send ? A Gift would do it . Let me think . T is but a gross-bodyed Wench , with a blackish haire neither .  A hundred golden peeces I am intrusted withall by my elder Brother , to purchase a peece of Injustice . If I should send them —  I will send them , win her , use her , suck her Purse , recover my own , gain hers , and laugh at the poor Cuckhold her Husband . Commend with these my lifes blood , and Soules service to my Mistris . Farewell —  Hist , Footwell , Footwell .  She wrote to me , that J should come in this habit .  And am J come pat ? am J come i' the nick ?  But not so rotten .  Hold Footwell , tel that till J return — from branching the most meritted Cuckold Crasy . Poor Snake , that I must force thee to cast thy Skin . And he were not a Citizen J could pity him : He is undone for ever . Methinks J see him all ready make earnest suite , to weare a red Cap , and a blew Gown ; comely to carry a Staff-torch before my Lord Mayor upon Alhalloune night . Watch Footwell , J mount . —  within , Hold Mrs. Crasy . Deare Bridget . Help Footwell .  Hold , deare Lady — I am —  Oh I thank you good Mr. Footwell .  Oh , but t is sir .  Rogue . Rogue .  Nay prethee sweet Rascall , Pox on you , I did not mean to hurt you , my honest Vagabond , tell me , tell me : Come , who was 't put this Trick upon me . Thou art a precious Villain : Come , whose devise was it ? Whose plot . At whose Suit was I Cudgel'd ? Who made me feigne my selfe a Physitian , till I must be forc'd to go to the Surgeon ? And dare'st tell me ?  Ticket .  Well , if I revenge not —  I , afore Heaven , that 's well thought on . Give me but the meanes , and I will not only forgive , but reward thee richly .  And soundly . My ambitious blowes shall strive which shall go formost .  draw him up but halfe way .  Do so : I shall be so reveng'd now ! He had been better ha' been taken in Bed with another mans Wife , then have prevented me thus .  I would you would begin once , that I might be at work . I do not love to stand idle in the Cold thus .  Up sir , up sir .  Save you sir .  Fists and Cudgels .  Armes , Shoulders , Sides .  Honest Footwel ! how dost ? Sir Andrew ! Heartily how is 't ? —  Why what 's the matter ?  Parmacety , Sir , is very good , or the fresh skin of a flead Cat ?  The fly-blowes of a dead dog , made into oyl , and spread upon the kell of a meazell hog .  Joy , health , love and children to this happy union .  Sure 't is a merry madnesse for the losse of the widdow ,  Death o' my Fortune ! that was my Gold . 