 Welcom again my princely Nephews , welcom .  Thanks , courteous Uncle .  T were a sufficient spur to noble actions  To be rewarded but with your content ,  Which to procure we make our businesse .  Here it is . If there be any thing .  No , Delphos is but a den of jugglers , which profanely  Abuse divinity , and pretend a God  Their Patron to authorize their delusions .  Noble Justinius , thanks .  And for the happiness which we both aspire to  We here confirm the friendship long since plighted ,  Which never shall be broken by Philargus .  You have made my vow , my brother Philocles ,  And friend , which is above it . I will seek  And rather die then fail to gain her love :  But that , and the whole kingdom in addition  Must divide our friendship or affection .  As we are Twins in birth , we 'le be in mind  Unto our latest breath . Let Greece hereafter  Forget to mention the Tyndarides  With their alternate Deities , and tell  Of two Thessalian brothers could refuse  A happiness ( which onely is not Heaven )  In detestation of priority ;  Would not be happy , 'cause they might not share  An individual , both Time and Thing .  Madam . How fares the life of goodness .  To keep the world alive give your assistance .  So 't must be .  And so by transposition of my love  I shall be quiet , and Philocles doubly happy .  Doris , go seek my mother , and perceive  If I may see the Princess .  Love , thou art well compar'd to fire , which where  It doth obey and serve being commanded  By higher powers of the soul , it fares  Like to the stone or jewel of a ring ,  Which joyns the orb , and gives it price and luster :  So glorious is that love , so necessary .  But , where it rules and is predominant ,  It tiranizeth ; Reason is imprison'd ;  The will confined ; and the memory  ( The treasury of notions ) clean exhausted ;  And all the sences slavishly chain'd up  To act th' injunctions of insulting love ,  Pearch'd on the beauty of a woman . Thou  Masculine love , known by the name of friendship  Art peaceful and morigerous : But that  Of woman , is imperious and cruel .  VVhy should I then lose Philocles for Eudina ?  Why ? Can I look on her and ask a Reason ?  O the divinity of woman ! sure  There is no heaven without 'em . If the Gods  Should thrust out Jove as he depos'd his Father  And elect me to be their thonderer  I 'ld not drink Nectar to forgo Eudina .  Has he been here ?  Now Philocles , I suffer in thy injury ;  And to proceed in it were treachery .  I would retire — But that magnetique beauty  To which are chain'd thousands of hearts and eyes  Has captiv'd mine : nor must I seem to slight  A mothers care . She 's not the first ( t is known )  That of two sons hath best affected one .  Madam , you see she 's busy .  Princely Madam ,  That language from your gracious lips is powerful  To save him from the grave , that onely lives  By your free favours .  I cannot flatter pride , nor undervalue  Abilities . 'T is true that Stratocles  Has been a useful servant to the State ;  But , doubtless , he would make as ill a Master .  Nor more be thought of him .  And therefore Madam , by your fair command ,  To avoid all Court-circumlocutions ,  I tender thus my service , and crave hearing .  The King has graciously been pleas'd , in lieu  Of my slain fathers services ; and for love  To us his sons , ( by us much undeserv'd )  To recommend unto your noble choice  My brother and my self . You standing doubtful  Whether to chuse , we to avoid dispute  Of violating friendship , did implore  The Councel of the Oracle to direct  You in th' election . But the hidden sence  In the dark sentence hath perplext both you  And us with more anxiety .  Yet you are not prescrib'd ; your choice is free .  To take your lot in Philocles or me .  We both , by strong injunction must pursue  Your sacred Love , yet keep our friendship true .  Then thus illustrious Madam .  As low as future duty must compel me ,  When you shall be my Queen , let me beseech  The favour that I seek and would obtain ,  Equal with heavenly bliss , to shine on Philocles .  May he prove so .  Friendship , with favour , may  Hold between King and Subject : But one throne  Cannot estate two Kings ; Love's number 's one .  I am amidst the Gods .  The wealth o' th' world , the beauty of the Heavens ,  And powers of both shall not redeem my interest .  — Provided that I lose not Philocles .  Ye Gods , how comes this ? Let me raise him up ,  Brother , and friend ; speak , 't is Philargus calls thee .  Had you expir'd  In that belief , and I had understood it ,  My shadow should have posted after yours  Unto the Elisian fields to vindicate  So causeless imputation .  I may not stir ,  When she , whose power above me countermands  The precepts of the Gods requires my stay .  That spell convinces all . Friendships above ,  And must controul obedience , and love .  T is not to injure thee my dear Philargus ,  That here I linger , to oppose thy love ;  But to prefer it .  And ever must .  But dos the glory of the world , Eudina , grant it .  T is not in fate to wound our common friendship .  The Gods avert such purposes . If you  Deprive the world of your fair self , then we  Both fall by necessary consequence .  But what are we ? This Thessaly must suffer .  The King must yield , to see a new and strange  Successon appointed to his Crown ;  And by his subjects , not himself .  The Gods have spoke it in you ; it is their  Divine injunction ; Madam , I obey it ,  And dare engage as much for Philocles .  I heard of Gerons love  To his fair Doris . We are now become  His Tutors , Madam , to be amorous .  Yes Madam .  Stay Placilla .  What! has my Mother chid you . I 'le not question  Her Reason , nor your fault ; but pray thee sister  If Philocles approach to see the Princesse  Ere my return , tell him I stay at 's lodging ,  First , to confer with him .  Introth thou weepst . Therefore to comfort you ,  Because I know by some infallible signes ,  You are more tender of his Love then mine .  He stands in equal competition yet  With me for fair Eudina . And if Fortune  Allots her me , I 'le be as kind a brother  And stil the same to you as Philocles .  I pray thee dry thine eyes .  Ha! where 's this fellow ? is he gone ?  T is Philocles his hand ! An eager challenge !  A challenge , and to me , his friend and Brother .  Now Oracle , where 's your Riddle ? Answer me ,  Apollo's fiddle-stick . O ye Delphian Priests ,  You hang religion up , like painted cloaths  Before unseemly walls , to cloak their filth  And palliate their wicked misteries .  Sick in Philocles .  You 'l hear more of his kindness to you shortly .  This is the place . What is 't that urges me  So promptly to deed , which being acted ,  Will be th' astonishment of Heaven and earth ?  Applauded no where but in Hell . Fair Tempe ,  Let it not be deriv'd to after Ages ,  By any uncouth mark upon thy face ,  Let not thy grassy locks , that shall receive  The drops of blood , wither and die , condemning  The place that bore them to continual baldness ;  Let not the impress of our labouring feet  Hold it's proportion ; nor that part of earth ,  Whereon the slain shall measure out his length ,  Reserve the stamp , and make it monumental ,  By a perpetual spring of more procere  And bigger bladed grass : And , when my soul  Hath found an Exit ( which my purpose is  My Brothers sword shall open ) let the valley  ( When hee 's departed ) sink and undermine  The bordering hills that they may cover me .  Let all the eyes of heaven be hooded , onely  One star to guid his point unto my heart ,  Which instantly shall fall , and be extinct  In my distilled blood ; that so the Gods  May not behold him . May some magick spell  Instruct his arm and weapon how to slay  My name and memory , that of me , there be not  Any desire ; on him no Imputation .  I so 't shall be : a violent assay  For provocation ; and then spit my self  Upon his steel .  What 's meant by this ?  Are you so changeable ?  This was my resolution ;  Will you stain  The reputation rais'd of your high valour .  That 's my part .  Brother you dally with me . Therefore I conjure you  By faire Eudina let your anger loose ;  Break up this cask of blood , and give the earth  A draught unto her health .  This is hard measure , Philocles , to mock  Ere you destroy .  Hold , hold , and be not prodigal of that blood ,  More precious then Pactolus golden streams .  Yours was , it seems ; but none went out from me .  This is the villane  That summon'd me .  What monster art thou ?  Die villane , die . And were thy master in thee ,  The thirst of whose ambition sought our bloods ;  His flesh with thine should here become a prey  Unto the Ravens .  We shall abuse  The trust the Gods have put into our hands  If we neglect to execute justice on thee .  T is worth our care .  See brother , stand upon our guard .  Dear friends —  But saw you not some passages before ?  Of his attempt upon our lives ?  Live wonder of the heavens , a star on earth  Out shining theirs .  We wish yours may be such .  That resolution 's mine ; And I conjure you  By the self-same respects , and all that are  Or may be hollowed , to let me depart .  I will remove but for some few daies journey  Whence you shall duly hear from me . But rather  I 'le travail to th' Antipodes , then here  Linger the vain impediment of your joyes  In your Eudina .  Can a bliss  Be purchas'd with your absence ? No : 'T wil torture  Equally in fruition as in want .  Were it a Kingdom onely , we could part it  Without the quarrel of the Thebean brothers ;  Or , were it heaven it self , Castor and Pollux  Should have our imitation . But Eudina  Is onely indivisible .  'T is I that must take leave .  Not so good Uncle .  A strong necessity  There is that one of us absent .  Uncle , you are unjust ,  I would remove to let that golden showre  Light upon Philocles .  I pray take Philocles .  No , nor by mine ,  While Philocles remains .  Friendship for me then .  But how can you forgo that equal interest  You have with me in Thessaly , and Eudina ?  Can love allow 't ?  Give it me full , Varillus .  You have the victory in friendship , brother ,  Who , by your resolute absence will inforce  And drive me to a happiness ; wherein  I must not cease , in all the strength of prayers  Of sacrifice , and vowes ; in all my goods  Of fortune , mind and body to be yours :  Which that you may return to repossess  With the more speed , this health to auspicate  And expedite your travails .  As it is  With souls that leave the world in peace .  No , 't was my self .  Be not amaz'd , as at an apparition .  Were I dead  ( As I was thought to be ) your name pronounc'd  Over my grave , beyond all Necromancy ,  Would call fresh blood into my veins again ;  Strengthen my nerves , to break the Iron gates  Of death ; and force my joyful spirit from  Th' Elisian Paradise to live with you .  Me in a Peerless wife . 