 IS this Checquino's house , your Advocate ?  T is well , Give me my writings Nicolo ,  Please you to enter : I 'le dispatch my man ,  Exit . Guad .   And follow instantly . Now Nicolo ,  About the serious busines Nicolo ,  In which this morning I instructed you .  Right my Apprehension  On that discourteous , cursed Curtezan ,  T will breed me more delight , then all the dalliances  I could have found in her most free ambraces ;  I hug my quick and sweet invention for it ;  Here take this gold ; this bright refulgent gold ,  Twenty Checquines , and promise twenty more  On the performance of the brave exploy't  T will take unto my wish , I doe foresee 't .  Right my Nicolo .  Right , witty Knave . Go heartily about it ,  Thinke what a Master t is thou dost it for ,  That has no slender tie upon thy duty ;  One that has bred thee from a youngling up  To this maturity .  And Nicolo , it was no petty kindnes  To manumize your Father from the Galley  Which you cannot forget .  But I 'le urge thee no further . Boy be carefull ;  Worke but this for me with effect and speed ,  And bind me as a Father to thy need .  Yes , as the flame the fuell ;  To worke it into coales , and so to ashes .  These Tires , these Chaines , these Paintings , and these Gawds  Are but the sprigs and leaves , the butchers use  To set out flesh to sale with ; or , at best ,  But the gay Garlands which adorne the Beast  Prepar'd for Sacrifice —  And as those Beasts , so senselesse are you women  Of the most certaine danger you put on ,  With your vaine glorious gayety ; chips and strawes ,  To kindle fire of lust , in whose lew'd flame  Sinkes ( with Troyes Buildings ) Natures choycest  Flame .  I would give o're , would you ; and change my Function .  Hold thy peace foole : shee will runne on the faster .  Thou knowst not how much harme , preaching has done  'Mongst women . She will prove the only Sweep-stake  In all the City .  I 'm now your Creature ;  My noble resolute Mistris ; now I adore you :  Now you shine bright ; your bravery now becomes you ,  Yet ( let me tell you under faire correction )  I have some cause to hinder your desires ,  And theyrs that seeke you more , yet , for a time .  You know I was preferrd to you for a Bravo  Of long and deare experience : I have serv'd  Six , the most famous Dames , this City bred  These sixty yeares ; none scorning my advise ,  By which , and their endeavours they grew up  To purse the price of Providences ; which bestowd  The most in publique , some in pious uses  Purchac'd them fame , almost Canonization .  The last and least of them , Margarita Emiliana  Founded the Augustinian Monastry  I showd you late ; where shee has daily prayers .  These women , whom successively I serv'd ,  Fell not by rash adventure unto all  Great Fortunes offers ; but by sound advise  ( Which kept their Bodies sound and ' rich'd their coffers )  Were long e're they embrac'd ; by which their price  And beauty grew of greater estimation ,  My profit in this too is unneglected :  For long suspense , and tedious Expectation  Bring me more certaine fees ; where , if you fell  Imediatly to work , my work were done ,  And your own too , perhaps too soon : witnes the falls  That Pox and Poverty have brought on many !  When their youths flame was spent and they rejected ,  When others of their Sisterhood were embrac'd  Into a wholsome Nunnery .  You may conceive , 't would grieve me , that ( where now  You have continuall new , and bounteous suitors ,  That yeild me fees for the bare sight of you )  You should in yeilding to their common use  Send one man cloyd away , t' affright another  From his approach .  Signior Guadagni our Councell have thought fit ,  For better confirmation of our act ,  That it be past here in your Daughters presence  Together with my Son , whom I have sent for ,  Why doe you seeme thus mov'd ?  Hast treated with the Hangman Nicolo ?  The best jest , ha , ha , ha .  It will be mirth to morrow at our feast  To laugh our bellies full .  I let him goe : a merry harmelesse fellow  I 'le answer for him . Hence , away , and shit you .  And quickly send my Son .  It is no dallying Run and fetch a Smith  Ex. Nan .   To force the Lock .  How , how , how !  Where is he ? speake .  We both are wrought upon by hellish Magick .  Though you sirs , being Lawyers , think there 's none  VVe may both thinke there are , and fear 'em .  Sir , use your jerks and quillets at the bar .  Take her to custody .  Away with her .  Unheard-of impudence ! Are Bawdes , and VVhores  Fit Matchmakers for Magnificoe's Daughters ?  VVe shall know more anon ;  I' th' meane time what are you ?  VVe shall know more of that anon too .  You shall know more anon too .  You also shall know more anon .  And thou misledst my Sonne , I aske him of thee .  Out-brav'd and scornd by Strumpets , Bawds , and Bravoes !  Call in the Officers .  We doe consider sir , this place and people  No fit receipt for warrantable businesse .  You see the worst of us , I should be loath  Any unwarrantable act should passe among us .  But I 'le be so reveng'd  Upon this instrument , this unknowne Trull here —  Good , you shall see how I shall coole those Kisses .  You say that is a Dutchman sir , that wrong'd you .  You say you are the man confronted Don here .  Good ! vertuous Lady ! Let mee joyne your Friendships .  Now you are in the right .  Still i' the right ; I 'le shew you what he is ,  And out of him , what shee is , whom you call  So vertuous and so noble ! and you sir ,  That mentioned the Hangman , come all and see  The commendable port this Lady beares .  It seems , sir , you affect this Gentlewoman .  And you him Lady ?  Would that were true ifaith . The rogue your man  Sayd he would fetch a Priest —  Thou art a mad fellow for a Priest indeed ;  But such a Priest , such a Marriage ,  Put 'em together .  The Bridegroome thankes you , but you Mistris Bride  For the fine trick you put on me last night ,  Looke now upon your husband ,  Who would you speake with fellow ?  Can this be he ? ( you said he was a counterfeit )  I saw him ride the Wooden-horse , last day  With lesse then halfe this beard , unbeard him sirrah .  I 'le beare you out . So rest you Gentlemen  With your so vertuous Lady , and her husband .  I am abus'd and couzend .  I 'le not be so couzend .  This is no Priest ; and all that 's past unlawfull   And I , but for one scruple  Cleare me this point , how had you sav'd your honor  If the old youth , last night ( who shall be namelesse )  Had but mis-spent his time upon your moore here ? 