 Silence Crier , suspend the Proclamation , to prevent abomination .  On , on ; sa , sa ; down with their VVeapons , up with their heels , till we insect and rip up the intrails of the Cause : what an Assassinate was here attempted ?  O infausta Dies ! two swords against the naked vvomb of a VVoman ! and none but weaponless men to assist her !  Upon my facundity , an elegant construction by the Fool . So , I am cedunt arma Togae .  Then vve are for the King , Sir ; & in nomine  Majestatis , we command you to attend our present  Office , and then we will examine yours .  Now say , VVhereas upon just and lawful Tryal .  The said Eulalia .  O homines insani ! quomodo erravistis ?  The woman must be sav'd รก manubus istis .  They are Catilinarian Traytors .  Recte dixisti Domine : therefore Sir ,  You that are for the King , as you pretend ,  Shew us th' Imperative mood or warrant for her death ,  Or we shall put you into the Optativa mood ,  By punishment to wish your selves dead oftner  Or more times than bona fide there be Tenses  In all the Moods of all my Accidences .  Digito compesce labellum : silence good Pedro .  I do commend your zeal : but Periculum est in via ,  We will walk safely : for this time therefore wee 'l do onely thus ,  Double our guards upon 'em , and away to prison with them ,  Est locus in carcere quod Tullianum appellatur .  We will presume to know who 't was that set you awork , before you go ,  A word more , wee 'l hang you presently , and answer that too : Abite hinc in malam Rem : away with 'm .  As I am Erudite , idoneus Adolescens ,  A very towardly Juvenis . Cupis atque doceri ?  Wilt thou be a Scholar ?  Now by mine intellect , discreetly spoken .  Be but my Pupil , I will make thee one ,  And dip thy Caput in pure Helicon .  Still a desire to learn : this is no Fool .  And by the company hee 's in , I do suspect ,  Simile non est Idem : hee 's too wise ,  To be the thing he seems but in disguise :  Some Lord of Court , his outside non obstante .  O Oedipus ! I meant this Juvenal .  Sed nunc quid sequitur ? Pray mark the issue of this Court quarrell . By the way , 't is well you have renounc'd all qualitie of Court .  Here were no living for you else ; for know ,  Since this mans trouble , not a Gentleman ,  Much less a Courtier dares breath amongst us ,  But be as you pretend and write , but Yeoman :  You shall live Jovially with us and welcome ,  At your own charge , your own Viaticum .  Cave , caveto .  Eho , oh , io , where is my learned sister ?  Proh Sancto Jupiter !  Hei mihi Qualis erat ?  Talis erat qualem nunquam vidi .  Corpus inane animae , hold thy peace .  Non est narrandi locus : Go forth and see . Th'  enraged Rurals are in an uproar lowd , each one an Hercules furens , a formidabilis formidandus Hostis and quite against the Law  Of nostrum est injuriam non inferre ,  Are on the point of making themselves merry ,  In hanging those ill destin'd men by th' neck  That sought so late to give your neck the check .  In tempore venimus with a Reprieve , quod omnium Rerum est Primum .  A most Elegant Figure ! ) Let 'em and please you come to the Gallows another day for killing you out right : who can help it ?  Oraculously spoken : which of the Sages could said more ?  Another elegant Figure .  But will ye now , if misericordially  This gracious Foeminine preserve your lives  from the Gallow Tree ,  Become new men indeed ?  My self also will to be their securer convoy go ,  For fear the Rusticks may presume again  To stretch these penitent necks with halter strain .  Oh! proh ! proh Nef as !  I le have no hand in blood of any man .  Coram Senatures acta est : sub Judice lis est .  Ocurvae in Terris animae : the Rusticks  Have tane again the Law into their hands .  And will you tender clemencie non justante  A Courtiet hang , his sweet Face nec invante .  His Name is hight Alphonso  That Treason brought in Pectore & Skonso   Andrea , Lollio , Poggio , the Drudges  Have got the Peoples voice to their Judges .  Yes Judges they will be ,  And kill , they say , the Snake of Treachery .  Thus have you seen great King in best array ,  Nostri Discipuli have made Holy-day ,  Whilst I their Paedagogue or pettie King  Present in hand this little Royal Thing ,  Yclep'd their Queen or Mistriss : certe fallor  For that 's the Royal School Mistress as we call her .  And this her under Usher : vey'ld is she ,  Dreading the Power of shinning Majesty .  Might dazle her Dancing : for nunc est saltandum ,  And here are Lads and Lasses that at Random  Have left their works , as we the School & Templum ,  To follow us ; 't is Regis ad Exemplum .  The youth's are muffled for their better graces ,  Though you may like their feet , youl 'd blame their Faces  But I le not trouble you with long Oration ,  Because I had but short precogitation .  Non simus ingrati  Rex & Regina semper sint Beati . 