 So Whilome said ,  A miser , having much increas'd his store ,  He had as much still as he had before .  So Whilome said  A School boy , when another rais'd his top ,  Let me alone , my self can keep it up .  A wise Philosopher Whilome did affirm ,  That women who have past the fire of love  Have hearts , which grief can neither pierce , ne move .  But Whilom did the love-sick Poet prove ,  No antidote against the power of Love .  As Whilom  Th' Athenian boy who stole a fox did hide  Under his coat his theft from being descried  Until it tore his Gentals — his intrals  I should have said .  By oratory , Epistles , and by gifts  Which Whilome Ovid said were best of shifts .  But she , as Whilom said Anominus  Retorteth all with scorn injurious .  But Whilome said Diogenes ( t is true )  To one that would , I will not speak with you .  For Doris love , as Whilome Daedalus .  I will take wing . But see I am prevented .  Whilom , so  Said a Physitian , meaning to restore ,  And kill'd the Patient was but sick before .  So Whilome prisoners have been cal'd to come  From dungeon deep to hear a blacker doom .  Then Whilome , as  Ovid his Corynna sweet , said o —  She comes , she comes . My joyes do overflow .  My business is the same , that Whilome drew  Demosthenes to Corinth , some repentance ,  So I pay not too dear .  O forfeit not the praise  That Whilome Aristotle gave your Sex ,  To be inrich'd with piety and pitty .  No , gentle Doris , nothing but the thing ,  Whereby great Alexander Whilome said ,  He knew himself a mortal , and no God ,  Coition —  I thank your Ladyship as much as they  Who Whilome — Whilome —  So Whilome did contend two warlike Princes  For a fair Hand , till a powerful King  Subdu'd them both and it . Doris , take heed ,  Be wary in your conversation  ( As Whilom Tully warn'd his tender son )  With such Plebeians , least their vulgar breeding  Corrupt your education .  And my self  Her onely study ; such as Whilome was ;  Ulysses to Penelope .  Sir , she shall be  More precious to me then Homers Iliads ,  Whilome to Alexander , which he made  His mighty bed-fellow : But why stand I  To render this account ? The Princesse sent you ,  Doris , to call their Lords to walk with her ,  And take the air of Tempe .  Come you with me then , Doris .  Their merits bear no aequability  With mine .  Le ts hear it then .  The Gods , in Love , Whilome have stoop'd with men .  Therein the oddes is mine ,  For they are both my Lords .  As Whilome said , None of the wisest Clerks ,  When the Sky falls we shall have store   Your Mistresse , Lady , Princesse , and my Mother  Shall know your .  Your Lords too I 'le acquaint .  Your Love I will forget ; your scorn remember  In black revenge , and so —  My Rustici amici , your Councel and  Your vertue have restor'd me . And t is true  As Wholom said the good Antisthenes  Vertue is armour 'gainst the very fates .  An ancient Britain , whom I have affected  As idly as my love . But I 'le forget it  And use that word no more . The clowns have found me .  You can all dance .  There is no doubt . However fear you nothing  As why — T is hard to leave off an old custom .  T is well it did so . You can dance you say .  A dance I have projected for the Princess  Who ever marries her it shall serve . As why —  You are as quick as why —  On , let us then to practise . King and court  Shall see , to crown their joyes , some countrey sport .  My Lord I see here 's joy towards , as why —  Cry mercy . I had left it . But my Lord  To celebrate the flowing joyes in Court ,  I and my Countrey heads have fram'd a Masque ,  Rather an antick dance , rather a countrey toy ,  Rather a Rustick round ; rather a —  T is a rural thing  To be presented at the Princess wedding  And , if you think it meet , I will induce  The practise of it presently . As why —  From Tempe plains , the Tempe Swains  With mirth aud Melody ,  With Dance and Song do hither throng  To greet your Majestie .  We cannot hope in all our scope ,  To gain much praise for skill ,  But it shall be enough , if ye  Accept of our good will . 