 Oh all in all , he 's not so familiar with any man , if Mihil Croswill be your brother , as 't is manifest .  No , I would not he should mistrust it for all he has , blessing and all ; and now that I have found you love your brother so well , I will make over my reason and my counsel in trust with you , hoping you will not wrong that trust .  I love your brother , Lady , and he loves me . The only good act that ever my brother did , was to bring us acquainted , and is indeed all that he has to live on . For I do succour him with many a stolne peece for the felicitie he brought me in your brothers love . Now , my father , whose irreconcileable hate has for ever discarded my brother , should he but dream of their acquaintance , would poison all my hopes .  Yes , and a way he has for 't , which I understand not yet .  Love 's above all adventures , the more hard the atchievement is , the sweeter the reward .  'T is well dissembled brother , but I know your cunning .  Mum Mr. Mihil , mum .  Let me now bid you welcome to my fathers house , where till your own be fitted , though my father keep too private a family to expresse large entertainment , yet I hope at worst you shall ha' convenient lodging .  I have laid open my heart to you , which indeed is his , but your father , I feare , will never be wonne .  His consent I would , and my fathers , I hope , would easily be wrought . You saw he was willing your other brother should have me at the first sight , meerly for his reservednesse , and Mihil methought carried himself as civil to day as he ; I mean , as civilly for a Gentleman , that should not look like one fathers of the Dutch Church at five and twenty .  But you were about to tell me how he first fell into this veine , this vanity indeed .  I will observe you .  That shews the best nature , they say .  'T is a strange fatherly care .  And that 's as odde a duty in children .  So .  Well on , I pray .  So he is still for ought I know , for I think no man of his Religion in his wits .  He may be good at that sport still , for there is almost none of his sect holds any other game lavvful .  Yes , I remember .  And she did love him as vvell !  But he learned not to be a Puritane there I hope .  O divellish Rascal !  In truth 't is pitiful , that villain vvould be hang'd .  And ever since he has been thus religious .  I vvill not then beleeve 't is Religion in any of the gang of 'em , but meer vvilful affectation . But vvhy , or vvherein do you or Mihil . crosse your father .  Why then do you desire him to get you an husband ?  There 's another youth novv gone on love's pilgrimage , e're since your father crost him in your love not to be heard of .  Pray love he does . I hope so too .  I could finde in my heart to ask his good-will my selfe .  I know not how to do 't .  His back side 's towards me .  What was your widow , sir , she stunk of Aqua-vitae , fearfully . 