 Your servants are all here and ready sir .  The rich Magnifico ?  It shall be done sir , please you give me passage .  Signor Pantaloni , sir , intreats you  Meet him on the Rialto instantly ,  That you may goe to the Advocates together .  With due respect .  Madona Flavia newes .  From your elected Bridegroome , brave Fabritio .  VVell and respectfull towards you it seemes ,  For hee desires you not to stir abroad ,  As I could wish you would not —  The reason is , he meanes to send anon  A Mercadante from the Merceria ,  The famous Pedler woman of this City  VVith her most precious wares ; for you to choose  VVhat you shall like , and take them as his presents ,  ( A ceremony us'd on wedding Eves )  Such Rings , such Things , such Knacks , such Knots & Bobs ;  Such Curles , such Purles , such Tricks and Trilly bubkins  As Mayds would turne no Mayds almost to see 'hem !  And can you yet be angry at such newes  VVith me the gladsome bringer ?  Most readily .  Look you Lady , I told you true , here is the  Party , that has the Knacks and things ; come  Open , open , and shew all .  Are you so coy of your toyes ?  I must give way . Shee has a devilish tongue . Exit   None but the merchantesse to fit my Mistris ,  Signior Fabritio sent .  Signior Pantaloni , sir sends after you  He and your advocates expect you in hast  To bring away the Writing .  The fault was in your hast sir .  This fellow has it under his coat sir .  Astutta ! Madona Flavia ! Astutta !  You 'l open the dore ?  I am sure you heare me  Foole me , but not my master : he is here .  The dore is fast sir , and they will not heare mee .  Hence let me fall to earth ; I may not see  My Masters fury rise out of his ruine .  By the back-dore which I found widely open .  O sir your Daughter —  Worse , worse , by far sir , shee is conveyd hence  The Neighbours from the windowes o're the way  Saw her , the Mayd , and a young Man take boat .  They guesse it was Francisco .  Loaden with Caskets sir . Here 's his Deceptio visus ,  The cursed cloak , that charm'd my honest care ; Nan . shows  And here 's his jugling Box . What toyes are these ! 