 Where 's my Boykin ? my Friskoe ? my Delight ? my Cash ? by what better name can I call thee ?  I come to comfort my brother in his sorrow .  His sonne is dead , they say . Ha! Is 't not so ?  That is my way to cure him .  Madnesse drowns grief in any man . — Probatum .  Good Mr. Cash , and Mr. Matchils man .  I 'll see your Master . What! deny his brother ?  His nowne natural brother ? By the surer side too  We tumbled in one Pannier ; though we had  Two Rippiers , Sweet sir , I am the elder too  Strigood was in my mother before Matchill  Therefore , because I have spent an estate  And he has got-one , must not I maintain  My self the better man ?  Sir , you had been as good ha' held your tongue .  Lend me some money Cash .  Whose money , sir , was that you played last night .  Among the Knights and Braveries at the ordinary ?  Gold by the handfuls , Cash ! Lend me two pieces .  Lend me three pieces , Cash .  Before I speak too loud , whose money 's that  You use to weare abroad at Feasts and Revels  In silver lace and satten ; though you wait  At home in simple Serge , or broad-cloth , sir .  Lend me five pieces .  I shall grow louder else . Who payes your Barber ?  I mean not for your Prentice pig-hair'd cut  Your weare at home here ; but your Periwigs ;  Your locks and Lady-ware that dangle in 'em ,  Like straws in the bush natural of a Bedlem ?  I mean ten pieces now ; I 'll go no lesse . Do not I know your haunts ? —  Do not I know your our leaps , and vagaries ?  Your tiring houses , where you shift your self ,  Your privy lodgings , for your trunks and punks ?  Your midnight walks and meetings ? Come , the money .  And , heark thee , though thou modest my brother by 't .  I 'll keep thy councel : thou shalt finde me virtuous .  I want , he gives me nothing ; and thou canst not  Do him better service , then relieve his brother .  Quickly . I shall grow loud again else Cash .  No ; no for all he has that comes through thy hands .  My nimble Cash ; and from his I am sure ,  Though I were starving , I should finger nothing .  I 'll see him e're I go ,  And dine , if there be meat i' th' house . What eate's  Are there within I 'll draw a knife among 'em .  Stay , you forget your brother , Mr. Matchil .  You have match'd ill once already ; and take heed  You match not worse , your children , though untoward .  And taking of the devillish Shrew , their mother ,  Were likely of your own begetting ; Yet  Your second wife may bring you a supply  Of heires , but who must get them , first is doubtful .  Ha , ha .  d ee cast about for heirs ; and have besides  Your daughter here , a brother and a sister ?  He has spoke  Against her Aunt , her Moon-calf sonne . I 'll make her love me best , and presently .  Brother , I say .  Give me leave to speak ; Hold you your peace ;  Hear but my brotherly advice ; and when  Give your consent in silence .  My advice is thus , that for your daughters good .  For mine own good , and for your Sisters good .  And for her sonne , your Nephew 's good .  And chiefly for your own good , and the credit  A wise man would desire to hold i' th' world ,  Think not of marrying , nor of buying hornes  At the whole value of your whole estate ,  But match your daughter while you have the meanes  In your own hands ; give her a good round portion ,  Here are deserving Gentlemen i' th' house .  Next , think of me your brother , that has spent  In down-right fellowship ( heaven knows what  All fraudulent purposes to make any man  A miser or a gainer by 't ) a faire estate .  And now do want a brotherly supply .  A hundred a year or so : but above all  Fasten your land unto your Sisters sonne .  That hopeful Gentleman , sweet Nehemiah .  What though it straggle from the name of Matchil .  Remember yet he is your mothers Grandchilde .  As I hope  To be a landed man my self ,  Had I a thousand yearly , I would leav 't him .  He 's falling mad .  Stark staring mad ,  Take a wife to master that , and you .  Neece Joyce , let me  Advise you . —  If then  You 'l estate nothing on me for my life  Give me a see to help you to a wife ,  I can , a good one .  Shall I expect then nothing ?  Hah .  I may , sir , to your cost , if you put off  Your daughter with her Sweet-heart , her Mon Coeur  There , as she calls her . Dear , my Lady Sister ;  You see how churlishly this Merchant uses us .  He has forgot , sure , he was borne a Gentleman .  Will you be pleas'd , I speak to you in your eare .  'T is about that I 'd speak , pray Madam heark you .  So , so , it takes .  As glad as ever Fox was of his prey  Where are my daughters , Landlady .  Are none of our Academicks come yet ?  I look for some anon  Pray bid the Girles come down  To practise .  Indeed , good Landlord ?  That shall not be lost ,  If I can further it .  O the Tresboun .  This Gentleman 's another , call the Musick .  I 'le try what you can do .  Cash , Thou art welcom , I am glad I met thee .  No , you are short .  I learn't it of a Jesuite .  And 't was but easie : shaving of my old  Gray haire and beard off ; clapping on this perrule  After the fashion ; having but few wrinkles .  ( For which I thank my Batchelourship , I passe  For a brisk youth . But for my Hannibal eye here . And by my brothers  Courteous advice I have ta'ne a course to live  Vpon my stock of wit , slight and activity ,  With nimble braine , quick hands , and aery heels , as he told me , ha !  But now I care not  What the wretch thinks , so he discovers nothing ,  I dare trust thee Cash , partly on thy Oath  Which I have ta'ne you know : but more respectively  Upon your fourty pieces here , friend Cash ,  Which I have also ta'ne : but most of all  For that I know you dare not make discovery ,  For feare of Little-ease . That were a prison  Too fearful for such bravery to stoop into .  Play then , — the Tresboun .  'T was very well done , Landlord , I protest  I love your house the better for your quality .  Your Trull ?  Some other time .  Here comes your wife . The newes good Landlady ?  How out of France ?  Can they speak English ?  You can speak French , Landlord .  Enter then Landlady , where be these Girles ?  Stand aside Cash , and be not yet discovered .  Now Ladies , how do y'like your way of living ?  So , so .  So , so .  Ha! you said ?  You know I have disclos'd you to no eye  That could take knowledge who or whence you are ,  And for the forrein strangers , and such Townsfolks  As knew us not ; what need we weigh their thoughts .  Their gold is weight ; let that be all we look to .  While our deserving arts and qualities  Require it from 'hem . If they think us wicked ,  And hope to get Virginities for salary ,  And pay for their deluded hopes before-hand .  What is our act bnt Justice on their follies ,  In taking of their prodigal coine ?  Never fear it .  Trust to my care .  And in that care be confidently seen ,  By a deserving Gentleman , whom I  Present to kisse your hands .  Ha , ha , ha . Be not afraid of Cash .  I know him , and he knows us . He is our friend  And we 'll be his . As for his bravery  'T is no new thing with him . I know him of old .  This sute 's his worst of foure .  And he 's one  Of the foure famous Prentices o' th' time .  None of the Cream and Cake-boyes , nor of those ,  That gall their hands with stool-balls , or their Catsticks ,  For white-pots , pudding-pies , stew'd prunes , and Tansies .  To feast their Titts at Islington or Hogsden .  But haunts the famous Ordinaries o' th' time ,  Where the best chear , best game , best company are frequent .  Lords call him Cousin at the Bowling Green ; And the great Tennis-Court .  Thy fathers money  Would rust else , Girle . Keep thou our Councel Cash .  And we 'll keep thine , though 't be to the undoing  Of him and all the wretches of his brotherhood ,  That love their money , and their base desires ,  Better then blood or name .  Can you hold your peace ?  He 's wise , and saves by 't all this while : He knows  His friends are bound in full two thousand pounds ,  For 's truth , and his true service , and perhaps ,  He is not out above one thousand yet ,  Where 's your wit now ?  You see she hearkens to him . Talk aside Cash .  And touch her boldly .  The French Gallants .  I had almost forgot them . They are a paire  Of delicate young Monsieurs . If they have  But crownes enough , they are the likelicst  Merchants for my new Mart that I can choose .  She said they can speak English , that 's a help .  For devil of French have I to entertain 'hem .  I would be glad to heare you speak the language  I better understand , and that is English .  In which you are most welcome .  A fine forward spark ?  Report , sir , speaks too loud on our behalfe ,  And let me pray ye , that it not beget  Too great an expectation on our weaknesse ,  By your too gentle suffrage . What we can ,  We 'll do .  At afternoon we 'll have an exercise  Of courtship , Gentlemen . In the Interim ,  If you will have to stir the appetite ,  A dance before our Ordinary we are for you .  Good Landlady , bid the Musick be in readinesse .  And then see dinner set upon the table .  We have Sir for Corants , — La Miniard ,  La Vemimde , Le Marquesse , Le Holland ,  La Brittaine , Le Roy , Le Prince , Le Montague ,  The Saraband ; the Canaries , La Reverree .  For Galliards , the Sellibrand , the Dolphine ,  The new Galliard , the Valette Galliard and lepees ,  I feare no French flashes . Beare up Cash . If we cannot daunce 'hem of o' their legs , our wenches can ,  I warrant thee . Musick be ready .  Gallants , what are you pleased to daunce ?  Come Gentlemen , Monsieur Papillion .  And Monsieur Galliard , all friends , all friends .  Chear up your faces Girles .  'T was but my trial of your chastity .  And since you have stood firme , I am proud of you .  Trust me , 't was but to try you .  VVhat 's past let be forgot . According to  Agreement , Gentlemen , y' are now content  To joyne with us in Academick fellowship ,  And for your pastime professe Art and Science ,  As we do for our profit : y' are expert ,  I finde ; and shall winne wonder of our Nation ,  To your own much delight out of their follies .  You are still hot upon the female Monsieur Galliard  Monsieur Papillion here flies over them .  Landlady , the newes ?  To what Landlady ?  Do you know their names ?  VVit be merciful unto us .  I have heard o' th' Lady . Cash , see if it be Ephraim .  He cannot know thee . Let him not away ,  By any meanes , his not return to them may keep 'hem back .  Landlady , is your husband come from ducking .  And Landlady , when the Knight and Lady come ,  Say we are ready for 'em .  'T is well done Monsieurs , I no sooner turn  My back , but you are on the Damosels lips .  On with your Masques-Maids ,  And take especial heed you blush not through 'hem .  For here are some at hand will put us to 't .  I cannot promise you . Be bold and safe .  Beare it out bravely , or our school breaks up  Immediately : and we are broke forever ,  Besides , there is no starting .  Fall into complement .  I am sir .  Yes sir , and all Professors of Court-discipline ,  By the most accurate , yet more familiar  Rules , then have ever yet been taught by any ,  For quick instruction both of young and old .  And reason good , good Madam . Pray observe there .  Was not that a sweet bout , sir ?  has he married my Sister troe ?  There , Lady , was a taste of sweet complement between persons equally affected . May it please you now to let your sonne passe upon this demosel . Who being to her a stranger , and raw ( as I imagine ) in courtship , shall meet with reprehension , that may be for his instruction .  We are commanded it by the policy of wise authority ; for feare young heires might fall in love with 'em , and sink their fortunes .  O good Madam . This is but school play .  'T is well , 't is well Le ts hear an Interchange or two now , of complemental acknowledgement of  courtesies past betwixt Ladies , for the edification of this faire one , who seems not yet to have ta'ne notice of us , but looks o' the ground still .  Sharp and sudden . She has a good wit I see .  Now Madam , and Sir Knight , Is not this neat and handsom ?  Nay , if you heard our Lectures , saw our  Daunces .  Relish't our Musick and harmonious voices ,  Observ'd our Rules for fashion and attire ,  Our many exact postures and dimensions ,  Fit to be us'd by way of Salutation ,  Of courtesie , of honour , of obeisance ,  To all degrees of man or womankind ,  From the low bent of vassalage , to the head  Of towring Majesty , you should admire .  Stand forth , Monsieur Galliard . Stay w' are interrupted .  Up maids , and quickly ; or 't is not your Masques  Can keep you undiscover'd . Go , be ready ,  With Musick and your voices , when I call to yee .  To me and to the place you are all welcom .  We shall do so , sir .  And they being absent , we shall for the present  Only deliver by these Gentlemen ,  Some heads of Sciences .  A Song , a Daunce , and then  Entreat you take a taste of a collation .  And all most fairly welcome .  The heads of our chief Arts . Your silence , pray you .  Enough , those shall be made familiar to you  By voice and action instantly . A Song there .  They are   Not alwayes sir .  But may it please yee Gentlemen and Ladies ,  Now to observe the practice of our feet  In active dancing .  Pray sir take no offence . Here was none meant .  Yes Gallants , now w' are readie , we but stayed for this fourth man here .  'T is well , Gallants and Ladies  Wil t please you enter .  O Gentlemen , you have lost such sport , the  Lady  And Merchants wife have been by th' eares .  He has done his best ,  And almost lost his eyes in the adventure  Betwixt the Furies tallons .  And deep in complement .  Our school affords no such in act or language .  Whither goes he ?  Cash , we are betray'd Cash if we be not nimble .  I smell a Fox . Hy thee up quickly Cash ,  And hurry down the wenches We 'll make bold with  My Ladies Coach to hurry us away .  Your brother o' one side .  O counterfeit Cash .  Y' are full of joy you say .  And I say had it been within my power ,  To have broke your heart , I had don 't . Therefore in me  Be comforted and love me ; for I finde  I have no power to hurt you , and will therefore  Attempt no further .  Know then into the bargain , that  I forg'd the letter that suggeited to you  My Nephews death , in hope of means that way .  Play then Les tous ensembles . 