 Now deafeness seize me . I disclaime my hearing . I defie my audituall part . I renounce mine ears . Mistris Pyannet , a desperate Palsey is on thy lips , and an everlasting Feaver on thy Tongue ?  I 'le breath it to thy bolder breast ,  That askst me for the nonce .  You understand or know , that here hath been a Feast made , to take up a ponderous difference between Master Sneakup your Father in Law , and your selfe Mr. Crasy ; and between most of your Creditors and Debitors . Food hath been eaten ; Wine drunck ; Talke past ; Breath spent ; Labour lost : For why ? Mistris Pyannet your Mother in Law , Mr. Sneakups Wife ( though shee will be call'd by none but her owne name ) that woman of an eternall Tongue ; that Creature of an everlasting noyse ; whose perpetuall talke is able to deafen a Miller ; whose discourse is more tedious then a Justices Charge ; Shee , that will out-scold ten carted Bawds , even when she is sober ; and out-chat fifteen Midwives , though fourteen of them be halfe drunk : this Shee-thing hath burst all . Demosthenes himselfe would give her over . Therefore hopeless Sarpego is silent .  Iterum iterumque vale .  That is Synonima for a fool . An ironicall Epithite , upon my Facunditie .  Diogenes Laertius on a certaine time , demanding of Cornelius Tacitus an Areopagit of Syracusa ; what was the most Commodious and expeditest method to kill the Itch , answered —  Peremptorily , Careo Supinis ; I want money . I confesse , some driblets are in the Debet . But , me thinks  , that you being a Man of Wit , Braine , Forecast and Forehead , should not be so easie , ( I will not say foolish , for that were a figure ) as to lend a Philosopher money , that cryes , when he is naked , Omnîa mea mecum porto . Well Sir , J shall ever live to wish , that your owne Lanthorne may be your direction ; and that , where ever you travell , the Cornu copia of Abundance may accompany you . Yes sure shall I . Vive valeque .  EGregious and most great of Expectation , my right dignified and truly Ciceronian Pupill , now that I have brought you into the Amoene fields with my ready thankfullnesse for the loane of this ten pound , I commit you to the grace of Court .  Your Sarpego is no slipperie Companion . You know I am to marry , and this money shall provide me Complements .  I tell thee , by the Axiomes of the Peripateticall Aristotle , thou art a Monster . My reward shall be therefore like thy selfe , monstrously lame . This is a figure in Eloquution call'd Apoxegesis .  You are an idle vagabond , and lye in wait for the blood of the learned . Labour , and live .  You did peradventure sip on the top of Science , Primoribus labijs , or so , but did not convert it in Succum & sanguinem .  J will give thee an infinite treasure . Sis integer vitae , scelerisque purus . Vale poore Rogue .  Yes I protest , as I am Erudite . Here dreadfull Mavortian , the poor price of a Dinner .  I do speak it in the Optative Mood , I do wish it lay in the modell of my Fortune to give harbour to your shaken state , yet receive this with appeased clutch .  Yes , yes , yes , that you may know how deare you are to me ; Know this is more then usuall largesse — for non omnibus dormio — There 's a Figure too .  Vae misero mihi ! sweet Purse adieu . Iterum iterumque vale .  You shall have it instantly . I will only deprome , or take out a little stuffing first .  You have most powerfully perswaded : Take it .  Yes , yes , and you have taken all that , have you not ?  Now Barbarisme , Incongruity , and false Orthography shame thee ; The curse of Priscian take thee . All the parts of speech  defie thee . All the Interjections of sorrow , as Heu hei , of Shunning , as Apage ; of Disdaining , as Hem vah ; of Scorning , as Hui ; of Exclaiming , as Proh Deum atque hominum fidem take thee . My deare Pupils lendings hast thou lewdly lick'd away : And sorrowfull Sarpego is lick'd dry . There 's a figure left yet ! But ô thou Castalion Traytor , Pick-purse of Parnassus , and Hang-man of Helicon : Dives thirst in thy Throat ; Ixions wheel on thy back ; Tantalus hunger in thy guts ; and Sisyphus stone in thy Bladder .  Ad manum . Sweet Buds of Generosity , forbeare you may Admirare , at the abundance here specified : But not find a Legacie bequeath'd among you   O Dij immortales ! A rich Widdow shall have Suiters on her Death-bed .  In Dei nomine . Amen .  I Iane Tryman of Knockers hole , in the County of Cornwall , Widdow , Sick in Body , but whole in Mind , and of perfect memory , do make my last Will and Testament , in Manner and Forme following .  Hum hum . Imprimis , A Dole of Bread to be given to the Poore of this Parish — five pound .  To Mr. Sarpego , the Writer hereof , A Mourning  Gown , and forty pound , to Preach at the Funerall .  Di boni ! No . T is forty shillings . Item to my Nephew , Sir Marmaduke Trevaugh an of St. Minever , one thousand pound in Gold . Item to my Nephew Mr. Francis Trepton , one thousand pound in Gold . Item to my Kinsman , Sir Stephen Leggleden , I do forgive two thousand pound , for which his Lands are Mortgaged to me . Item to his Daughter , my God-daughter Iane Leggleden , five hundred pound in money ; my best Bason and Ewer ; two silver Flaggon Pots , and three silver and gilt standing Cups . Item to the poore of the Parish of Knockers-hole , ten pound , and forty pound towards the reparation of their Church . Item to Mr. Linsey wolsey the Ring , which was my Wedding Ring , and fifty other Rings , with severall stones in my Trunck , in his house , valued at two hundred and fifty pounds . Item to all his servants , and to the Women that attended me in my sicknesse , five pound a piece .  Item , to my Page Jeffery Crack forty pound . And all my other Servants ten pound a peice . Item to my Neece Barbara Tredrite five hundred pound ; my second Bason and Ewer , a dozen of silver Dishes , and four dozen of silver Spoones . Lastly , all the rest of my Lands , Jewels , Plate , Money , Debts , Moveables and Unmoveables , to my dear and loving Brother , Sir Gregory Flamsted , whom I make my full Executor . In cujus rei testimonium , &c. This is the briefe of it .  Hoc nihil refert . I must write all over againe then .  Gratias vel ingentes ago . It shall be done —  NOw could I Accost that Catlinarian Traytor , that defeated me of my ten pound , I have a precogitated Oration should make him suspend himselfe . But Abiit , evasit , erupit . Or if the rich Widow would have dyed , there had been a supply . But she is nearer a Nuptiall , then a Funerall : And hopelesse Sarpego , that should wed , has not to furnish him to his intent , Vae mihi misero nec Aurum , nec Argent — tum ! Here comes my Beatitude .  My Legitimate Spouse , when is our day of conjunction ?  Did you not once vow you did love me ?  Hic jacet , I am now but a dead man .  The Son of Phoebus rectifie your Brain-pan .  Umh .  Umh Umh —  Quid nunc ?  O , an od driblet . Here , Friend , I use not to carry Silver : Convey it in Gold .  Poor Maid , I will prefer thee to scratch my head ; make my Bed ; wash my Shirt , pick my toes , and evacuate my Chamberpot . I will instantly procure mee attire , fitting my fortune , and attend the Grace of Court —  THis is the Presence . I am much amaz'd , or stupified , that Mr. Tobias Sneakup , my quondam Pupill , attends not my Conduct ! Ha! So instant was his Grace , his importunity to enjoy me , that although I purchased the loan of Cloaths , yet I had not vacation , nor indeed variety to shift my shirt . And now I come to Court , I feel certain little Cattell of infamous generation about me , that do most inseparably haunt me . Now if ( when the Prince surveyes me ) any of them being strangers here , should peep to behold strange sights , and his Grace perceive them , what should I answer ? —  I will say it was by influence of the heavens ; or , to appear the more perfect Courtier at the first dash , I will say , that though my outside were glorious , yet of purpose I left my inside lowsie .  Sed , O Dii ! Quem video ? nonne Mr. Sneakup ?  O monstrum horrendum ! May not you and I know one another ?  My Nuper Alumnus ! Come , present me to the Grace of Greatness . I am ready ; behold I am approach'd according to thy intreats , to approve thy praise , and mine own perfection . Set on : His Grace shall see that we can speake true Latin , and construe Ludovicus vives : Go , set on .  Sent you not a Nuntius , or a Messenger for me , intimating , that it was his Grace his instant desire , to entertain me as his Instructor ?  Sent I not you , by the same messenger , your ten pound ?  Sic transit gloria Mundi . The learned is Cony-caught ; and the lover of Helicon is laugh'd at . The last six-pence of my fortune is spent ; and I will go cry in private .  I have adventur'd , though with trembling feet ,  Unto this Mansion , to exonerate ,  At least extenuate my suspirations  For my dear loss . The Lady of this place .  Who had an equall venture , and hath suffer'd  In the same Fate with me , may ease my sorrow .  Solamen miseris socios habuisse doloris .  I of my wrongs , and she of hers shall clamor .  But ecce noster ubi esset Amor .  Where is your Mistresse ? I mean your grand Matrona , Mrs. Sneakup .  I will now breath a most strong and Poeticall execration  Against the Universe . [ Bri . ] Sir I beseech you —  From henceforth Erit Fluvius Deucalionis  The world shall flow with dunces ; Regnabitque , and it shall raine  Dogmata Polla Sophon , Dogs and Polecats , and so forth .  From hence let learning be abomination  'Mong the Plebeians , till their ignorance  Shall lead them blinde into the Lake of Lethe .  May Peasantry and Idiotism trample  Upon the heads of Art and Knowledge , till  The world be shuffled in th' pristine Chaos .  Elephantem ex Musca facit . She takes me for a Mountaine , that am but a Mole-hill .  But when she reads my poverty agen ,  And that these Garments must return to th' Gambrels ,  Her scorn will be impetuous .  Has she receiv'd Aliquid novi , newes from Court ?  Vae misero .  Lupus in fabula . The Devill 's in the womans tongue .  Nil tam difficile . Nothing can lay her .  Nulli penetrabilis Astro . Shee 'l heare no reason .  Quid faciendum ? Best stop their mouths ?  Jaculis & Arcu . Thunder and Lightning .  Tacete parvuli : You have said too much .  Redde te Harpocratem : The man is wise enough .  No certes , but a very religious Dialogue , full of nothing , but morall conceits betwixt Lady Luxury , a Prodigall and a Fool .  Why in that lies the nobility of the device ; it should be done after the fashion of Italy by our selves , only the plot premeditated to what our aim must tend : Marry the Speeches must be extempore . Mrs. Bride would I have to play Dame Luxury , and Mr. Footwell here the Prodigall .  I le play the Inductor , and then we are all fitted .  In sincerity not much better then a Curtezan ; a kind of open Creature .  Why surely religious Lady , it can be no disgrace to you to figure out the part : For she that cannot play the Strumpet if she would , can claim no great honour to be chast .  Exceeding well thought on , I pray you , Lady , approve of it .  I fausto pede —  Ex. Tob. Try.    Now for the Prodigall .  Nil nisi Carmina desunt .  To entertaine ye , while we attire our selves .  We want but now some Musick , or a Song ,  But thinke you have it . Sit : wee 'l not be long . —  Right Country Dame , and Courtly Lady ,  Look for sense as small as may be ;  But , if wit deceive your thinkings ,  Know our Muse disdaines base shrinkings .  Hold a while your Verdicts bridle ,  Judge not yet our Project idle ,  Till at length the close may show it ,  If we act the part of Poet .  Speak Lechery and Folly , Luxury I would say ;  I need not prompt them , they know what they should say .  Now enters Prodigality .  Dij boni ! Domine Crasie !  Tempora mutantur . The towne 's ours again .  Only , to fill the Scene with joy , may wee  Conjoyn sweet maid , in the Catastrophe .  Fortuna nihil aufert sapienti : Fools and Fidlers are her Favourites .  Gratias vel ingentes Domine Crasy . 