 O rather , Sir .  Let me , 'gainst whom your fury first was bent  Suffer alone the sharpnesse of your vengeance :  And let it not be said , 'cause you surmise ,  My father lost your son , that , therefore , you  Have cast away your daughter . Hurl me , rather ,  Into the ruthless waves to seek my way ;  Or do but take her , hold her in the armes  Of your paternal love , and I 'll take flight  To weane her to you .  Dear , mine own heart , leave me , obey your father .  Troth , nor I sir .  Here we are view'd and review'd by all comers .  Courted and tempted too , and though w' are safe  In our chaste thoughts , the impious world may say ,  We are set out to common sale .  I hope ,  You deal not that way for us .  Blesse us ! what Metamorphosis is this ?  'T is Cash your fathers man .  We are betray'd ?  But can you hold  It good in any servant so to hazard  His Masters livelihood .  See mine own heart , here 's more temptation still .  I like the others as well .  Thanks for our delivery !  We were upon the brink of main destruction .  'T was a most damnable practise fie upon him .  By Venus ( mine own heart ) my Gentleman  Came up so close to me , that if my voice  Had not been stronger then mine armes ( O me !  I tremble son it yet ) I had been vanquish't ,  I confesse  I love 'hem both so well , that if they prove  ( As they pretend they are not ) our inferiours  In blood and worth , I would take either of 'em .  You cannot tell that .  Brave honest Gentlemen .  Be advis'd though , Mistresse .  'Fore Heaven , I do acknowledge it ,  But sir , the Church must be observ'd ,  That 's enough  To make a coward fight , and mine own heart ;  We must stand stoutly to 't , we lose our loves else .  And I .  I commiserate your encounter . 'T is a most hungry , verminous , impoverish't word sir . It seems you are a stranger by 't , to the Innovation of courtship .  The acknowledgement of his weaknesse is the first greece of gradation to perfection , and his gladnesse the scaling-ladder of resolution .  What walking dunghil is this ? made of the dust swept from the house of ignorance .  Rather let me implore your mercy , Madam — .  Can your poor servant expresse acknowledgement enough , Lady , for favours so incessantly heap't upon her , besides the accumulation of many secret benefits ?  If such favours , Madam , should passe under an humble name , Honour would grow idle , and a thankful Nature beguil'd of her emploiment .  I am hound by many kindnesses , Madam , to celebrate the faire memory of you ; as the trouble of your Coach twice in one day , besides those inestimable Jewels , the Monkey and Dormouse your Ladiship sent me .  What you mean ? 