 Sorrow be gone  And puleing grief away , whilest I take in  A nobler and more manly Passion ;  Anger , that may instruct me to revenge .  My childe is lost by treacherous neglect  In that false Frenchman , to whose seeming care  I trusted the chief comfort of my life ;  My boy . Nay , read again . 'T is written , here ,  He was grown man :  And here he writes that in his youthful spring  And heat of spirit , he began to grow  Intemperate and wilde —  Which drew him on to riotous expence —  And sometimes into quarrels . What o' that ?  In all this he was still mine own . O boy —  And had his Guardian had a feeling care  ( Hang his French friendship ) over my dear childe ,  As I had over his , these youthful follies  Might have been temper'd into manly vertues .  But I fall back agen  From my revenge to grief . Away ; I will not .  Here 's the death-doing point . These slight disorders .  In my young forward sonne ( I finde it here )  Were , by his churlish and perfidious Guardian ,  Interpreted no lesse then Reptobation ,  And , by his ignorant cruelty , so punish'd .  For , here he shuts his eare and door against him :  When suddenly the loose licentious world  Soothes on his youthful , in judicious courage  To imminent destruction ; so being engag'd  In a rash quarrel , he in duel fell .  Th' Opponents sword was instrument ; yet I inferre .  Lafoy , his Guarcian was his murderer .  Farewel , my boy ; and this is the last teare  Thou shalt wring from me . Something I 'll do ,  Shall shew a fathers love , and valour too .  I 'm young enough to draw a sword in France , yet .  But first — Come hither , Sirrah .  I purpose streight to order my estate  Look that you forthwith perfect my Accompts ;  And bring me all my books of debtor and creditor ,  Receipts and payments , what you have in wares ,  And what in cash , let me inform my self .  I 'll set all right and streight ,  All statutes , bonds , bills , and seal'd instruments  That do concern me , I have in my Closet  Or at my Councels , or my Scriveners .  I 'll call in them my selfe . Why doest thou look so amaz'dly ?  Would'st have me yield a reason ? why , I 'll tell thee  I mean to make a voyage ; and , perhaps ,  To settle and proportion out my estate  By Will , before I go . Do you as I command you .  My daughter in the first place must be car'd for .  I 'll make her a good match . My next in blood then ,  My Knave-half-brother , and my whole fool-Sister .  But the best is , her Ladiship has enough ;  And all I have , in Strygoods hands , were nothing .  Therefore I 'll purpose nothing to him . Oh .  The Joy and Torment of my life , at once  Appear to me . I must divide them , thus .  Hence hated issue of my mortal foe  VVhom I have foster'd with a Parents Piety  As carefully and dearly as mine own .  VVhile the inhumane cruelty of thy Sire  Has to untimely death expos'd my sonne .  Thank me I kill not thee ; so leave my house .  There 's French enough in town , that may befriend you .  To pack you o're to Paris ; what 's your own  Take w' ye , and go . VVhy cleave you to her so ?  Forsake her , cast her off . Are not my words  Of force , but I must use my hands to part ye ?  Durst thou speak so ?  O monstrous . Pray , your reason . Why not live ?  That was , 'cause I presum'd her father lov'd ,  Or should have lov'd my sonne , your brother .  Th' art knee-deep in rebellion .  Unnatural Gipsie , since thou prov'st my torment  In being the same with her ; and hast declar'd  Thy self no more my childe , then she , whom now  I do abhorre , avoid , with her , my sight .  Rise , and be gone , lest thou pull curses on thee  Shall sink thee into earth .  Out of my doors then , with her . —  Such as you cannot mend , deare Lady Sister .  What come you hither with your Ha — for ? Ha —  You speak much comfort , do you not , think you .  O this impertinent woman !  Yes , as you have shewen your Nestlecock , your sonne .  And therefore you would breed her . How the devil  Works in a covetous woman ! Though a foole too .  Your sonne 's an Asse ; an Ideot ; and your self  No better , that have bred him so . Do you tell me  Of your sweet sugar-chop't Nestle cockscombe ?  He 's fit t' inherit nothing but a place  I' th' Spittle-house , Fools Colledge , yond , at Knights-bridge .  Right , for she was my Master , a perpetual  Vexation to me , while she was above-ground  Your Ladiship could not have spoke more comfort to me  Then the remembrance of that shook-off Shackle ,  Which now , in my affliction makes me smile ,  And were I on her grave , I could cut capers .  I could e'ne finde in heart to marry again ,  In spight , now , of thy witchcraft , my son dead !  My daughter disobedient ! and your childe  A very chilblaine . What have I to do  But marry again : all women are not devils ,  I may yet get an heire unto my minde .  Art thou here too —  Thy impudence amazes me .  I cannot look upon thee .  Provoke me not to speech , I charge thee .  hum hum , &c.   Nor you neither , hum — hum — hum .  hum hum —  hum .  hum .  I need not , nor your selfe . I see you gape  Like monsters that would swallow me alive .  I know your mindes ; and I will do mine own .  And , thus it is . Stay , let me stay a little .  So it shall be .  First , I 'll be Master of mine own estate .  Next —  Next , you Madamoiselle , ( on whom with patience  I cannot look ) forsake my house , and suddenly ;  Linger not for a man to wait upon you ,  But let your black bag guard you , 't is a fashion  Begun amongst us here by your own Nation .  And if I longer must call you my daughter ,  Forsake you her .  At your own choice . I can force her departure ,  Though not perswade your stay , determine quickly  Either to leave her , and enjoy a father ,  Or never more expect a fathers blessing .  I 'll be sudden .  Therefore be you as brief in your resolve .  Pray , Sir , none of your advices .  Let her advise her self ; whilest I impart  To you my next intention ; which is thus .  To end your strife for shares in mine estate  I 'll venter on a wife : indeed I 'll marry   Yes indeed La , —  I 'll none , Sir , of your good ones .  Besides , Sir , I 'm provided .  Let it suffice , I say 't , so quit my house .  Pray sir , do .  'T is all I can afford you . You have wit ,  Yes , you can daunce , tread money out of rushes ,  Slight and activity to live upon .  A nimble braine , quick hands and airie heels  To get a living .  Pray fall to practice .  O Gentlemen .  But I have over-past it . Heark ye Gentlemen   Nay , if you love me , heare me first .  'T is even so , Gentlemen , sorrow findes no lodging .  In my light heart sometimes she knocks at door ,  And takes a drink , but here she must not sit by 't .  Yes sir , t is such a thing that I will marry  That I fore know can never disobey me  And I 'll defie the devil to dishonest her .  Well-said , sir , you shall drink before me . Rachel , Mawdlin .  ' Protest you shall though 't be in my own house .  Ratchel I say ,  Bring me a kan o' sack .  Well-said agen . I was about to say so .  Rachel , some sack , I say . Yes , I have tried her , sir ,  Tri'd her , and tri'd her again ; all over and over  These five yeares day and night ; and still obedient .  No , I never us'd  A marriage-question , not a woing word ,  But do all by command , she is so obedient .  Well-said again , sir , so I was a saying .  No matter , let 'hem go . Would they were far enough .  Come , the sack , the sack . — Who taught you that courtesie maid .  Pray try a better to the Gentleman .  Protest you shall begin .  I 'll rather g' ye my house , then break my word in 't .  I 'll do you reason , sir .  Be ready with your Napkin , and a lower douke maid .  I 'll hang dead weight at your buttocks else . So .  Is not this obedience , Gentlemen , Mr. Erasmus ?  Mus , I will call thee Mus , I love to be  Familiar , where I love ; and Godamercy  For your friend here ; you both shall see my daughter .  But my French Damosel and I are parted  I hope by this time . So here 's to you Mus .  Ha boy , art there ? dispatch  Your court'sie quickly , and go cal my daughter .  Forth , ha ? when ? whither ?  La ye , she thinks I 'm angry , and the finger  Is in the eye already . Is not this  Feare and obedience , Gentlemen ? who went with her .  I would  They were all in France together .  She comes again , I doubt not . Dry your eyes .  And drink that sack , without a court'sie , drink it .  You do not know my meaning , Gentlemen .  Stay : now gi' me 't agen . — Now go and dry  Your face within — without a court'sie ? ha !  Now is not this obedience , Gentlemen ?  You do not hear me say so .  But I presume , as much obedience  In her I have made choice of .  No , I 'll have no such blades 'bout my wives hanches .  But come , to end this tedious Scene , in which  I ha' past the Purgatorie of my Passions  Of sorrow , anger , feare , and hope at last .  I am refin'd , sublim'd , exalted , fixt  In my true Sphere of mirth ; where love's my object .  And bloodie thought of black revenge cast by .  For some few minutes , in which extasie  I meant t' ha' gone , as other Gallants do .  To fight in France , forsooth , and charg'd my man  To draw up his Accompts , call in my moneys ,  Thought to have made my Will — .  I cannot  Think he is run away ; but yet I like not  His carrying forth , when I say , fetch in money .  But this is from my purpose . Love ye mirth ?  Let 's in , and drink , and talk . That gives it birth .  By your leave , my Lady Nestlecock , I have brought a sister of yours here to salute you .  Sir Swithen Whimlby ! and your pretty Neece ! well met , what affairs have you in hand here ? what do you cry for your old wife still or for a new one ? But heark , you Lady Sister , where 's my daughter ?  Is she not with you , ha ?  That Thief has sold her then into some Bawdihouse  Was this your project for her education ,  To steal my childe to make a whore of her ?  Are you turn'd Lady-baud now for your Neece  Because you have no daughter ? O the devil !  If there be Law , I 'll trounce your Lady Hagship .  I 'll make thee an example .  Speak to her , I charge thee , on thy obedience to speak to her .  Well-said Rachel , hold thine own Rachel . And so to you , sir Sw then .  I never heard her speak so much in all her life , Sir Swithin , nor half so loud . hank heaven , she has a voice yet on a good occasion . And so farre I 'll maintain her in it . Nephew Nehemiah , when saw you your Cousin Joyce .  Ah , naughty man , did a so gi' ' me a stroke , and I 'll beat it , ah — .  Not yet good Madam Nestlecock , you shall hear me .  You have entic'd away , then lost my daughter .  And now y' are a jugling with your widow wit ,  And your small worme here , to catch up for Gudgeons .  Sir Swithen and his Neece , I know your plot ..  She 's not fit match for you Sir Swithen ; and her son  Much lesse for your faire Neece . Come dry your eyes ,  And look upon him , and not only look ,  But laugh at him , I charge you .  Mark how his mothers milk drops at his nose , while I shew you the mother and the childe .  He was her youngest sonne , and all that 's left of seven , and dreaming that he needs must prove a Prophet , she has bred him up a fool .  A tender mother I must say she has been .  For till he was fifteen , none but her selfe  Must look his head , or wash his pretty face  For making of it cry . Laugh at her good Sir Swithen .  And before that , till he was twelve yeares old  She would dance him on her knee , and play with 's Cock .  So well-said , Sir Swithen .  Well said , Sir Swithen , laugh on . I hope I ha' done a cure on him , by shewing him a  more ridiculous object then himselfe , to turne the tide of 's tears .  Laugh still , defie the fiends , women , and all their works .  Well-said , hold there . And for your Neece  Let me alone . I 'le fit her with a match .  I know a Lad that 's worthy of her .  He 'll laugh too much , I feare .  How 's that ?  Hah ! Do you hab , or talk to me ?  I am match't again .  Pax , cry again , or burst thy self with laughing .  What am I ? what do you make of me ?  Durst thou advance a voice against me , ha ?  O base-borne begger .  How she holds up the wife .  Come your way .  And let me hear you speak so much at home .  Follow me home and durst .  I 'll rather run my Countrey , Gentlemen , then endure her .  I 'le make thee glad to flie first .  Whoop , whow .  What didst thou bring thou drudge thou .  I know not what to say to her .  She threatens hornes . I think .  O for an expert Chyrurgion now to cast her in a dead sleep , and geld her .  Never uniesse you bring her on her knees , to crave forgivenesse at my foot .  So match't ▪ how match't ? what from the hurden sinock with lockram upper-bodies , and hempen sheets , to weare and sleep in Holland , and from the dripping-pan to eat in silver , ha . Do you repine at your Match , ha . Is wealth contemptible to you ?  You may be poor again as soon as you please , the door is open , depart at your pleasure ; you know the way to your old Aunt the Apple-woman , at Hockly-hole . Take your knitting Needles again , and live with her , go .  The devil you shall . Was ever such a crooked condition crept into a thing like woman ?  Is she so ?  If she , sir , be your Mystresse , Then am I  Your Master-in-law , out of my house I charge you .  O my affliction !  Leave me then  A while unto my thoughts . Go into the house .  Affliction on affliction hourely findes me ,  And layes me on the Rack , tearing my heart  Like greedie vultures , O my heart , this heart  That I so long suppos'd impenetrable  By all the darts of sorrow , is now transfixt ,  Shot through and through with torments , and by this .  This last made sensible of all the rest .  My sons untimely death , my daughters losse .  My Sisters follies , and my Brothers vices .  My servants falshood , and the jeers of strangers  Now wound me all at once ; and all through this  Predominant blow , pull'd on me by mine own  Impetuous rashnesse . Let me here consider ,  While my hearts torture keeps my soule awake ,  The moving cause of all these ill effects .  Mine own unbridled wilde affections .  Scorne of example , and contempt of counsel .  I cannot but observe withal , how just ,  A judgement follows mine own wilful acts ,  In the same kinde of doing ills for ills .  For my lost sonne , I rashly wrought revenge  Upon an innocent Girle ; and with her  Have lost mine own ; and for th' unmanly joy  I took in one wives death , because a Shrew .  ( Though otherwise vertuous ) I am in another  Trebly tormented ; not alone with noise ,  But with a feare of unchaste purposes ,  Which if they come to act , my purse must pay for .  I see my faults , and feel the punishments .  And rather then stand out in my defence  T' enjoy some peace , I will endure some sorrow  And beare it civilly . Within there .  Go call your Mystresse , pray her to come alone .  My resolution brings me yet some ease :  Men that are borne to serve , must seek to please .  Rachel .  And then all three to In and In , is 't so ?  Your servant and your friend .  Your plow makes vile baulkes of my money the while .  This is gallant indeed .  She will flie to the devil for fashions sake . Pray stay a little , and let me talk calmely with you . You have almost broke my heart .  Hear me .  I know you put on this affected carriage ,  But to try masterie , and the disease  Being so general among all women ,  Is in you therefore more excusable .  Hear what I will say to you .  And finde in that a husbands good affection .  I love my peace , and would preserve my honour ,  Both which are in your breasts to save or spoil .  You will not understand me .  Though I love peace , and would preserve my honour .  I 'le yield in both to you , and can , ( I have been  So us'd to thraldome ) But the world , the world  Is such a Talker . —  There I would save a reputation .  Truly wife , yes .  Nay , we 'll bar blowes at all times .  Grammercy Rachel , binde it with a kisse .  Gentlemen , have ye found us ?  Thus shall ye see it ever , Gentlemen .  I knew she would yield , or I should make her heart ake .  What were a husband , if he were not Master ?  In a faire way , Gentlemen , I shall  Abridge her of no courtly priviledge .  But no more haytie twaytie tricks , I charge you .  She shall not jaunt to this nor that town with you .  ( I thank you for your care ) nor to Hide-Park .  Nor to the Academy you tell her of , without my leave .  Why do you admire it .  Is she not mine ? how could you think she durst  Stand out in her rebellion ? although the devil  Who soothes all Upstarts dispositions  Into an over-weening of themselves .  Possest her for a time , had not I power  And vertue do you think to conjure him out ?  What have I studied for , think you , e're since  My last wife di'd , but how to rule the next ?  Go get you in , there 's something in the house  Worth looking after .  What do you grow rebellious again .  Why stir you not else , ha ? prithee Sweetheart  Respect my dignity , or only seem to do it .  Aha .  Well , Anon , anon .  O — oh .  Pox of your Lobster claws . There waanip !  Well , I le come to you presently .  No , nothing , nothing but a womanish feare .  You know not me yet Gentlemen , I know a word in private would do it .  'T is her abundant love , and pure obedience .  Oh , — I understand you . Go , I 'le follow you .  I must weare Lantern-hornes upon mine arms ,  If she use this . Well , Gentlemen , at your own time  Le ts see yee . My Rach . shall make you welcome ,  And for me , you know me , I will still be Master . —  I come , I come , I come . So , farewel Gentlemen .  Thou speak'st  But thine own barbarous cruelty , hollow Frenchman .  Cunning Villain .  Give me then my sonne .  I pray Captain speak .  And mine own with her , through her disobeence .  But 't was upon advertisement by letter ,  That he had first cast off my sonne to an  Untimely death .  I know not what I am ; but did you know  The number , and the weight of my afflictions ,  You could not chide me thus without some pity .  There 's hope then yet  That my boy lives .  You comfort me , and now Lafoy y'  are welcome .  Lost or lost not , mine 's with her . And I  purpose now to be sad no longer . For I think  I ha' lost my wife too , there 's a second comfort .  'T was paid . I have your bill for my discharge .  How now ?  Ha' you found your Mystresse .  She has found then some good exercise , I doubt not .  That holds her so .  Who ? or whence comes he ?  Fetch him me quickly ,  It is my sonne . Grammercie mine own heart ,  That wast not light so suddenlie for nothing ,  Pray Gentlemen , who e're you see , name no man  To me , unlesse I ask you . He comes , he comes .  I 'm grown a proper man . Heaven make me thankful .  Just such a spark was I at two and twenty ,  Set cloathes and fashion by . He thinks to try  If I can know him now . But there I 'le fit him .  With me sir is your businesse ?  As well as he that got him .  Pray Gentlemen keep your countenances . Not know you sir ?  'T is like I may have known you here to fore ,  But cannot readily collect ; perhaps  You are much chang'd by Travel , Time , and Bravery ,  Since I last saw you . There he may finde .  I partly guesse , but will not know him yet .  Good Geutlemen say nothing .  Know you , or know you not sir , what 's your businesse .  Now he comes to me .  I had sir . But I hear he 's slain in France .  And farewel he . Mark how I handle him .  And what sir of my sonne ?  I mufe the Knave askes me not blessing though .  Whither now flies he trow ! Sir , do you know her .  Or where to finde her ?  Now he comes home : And I can hold no longer .  My blessing boy , thou meanest . Take it , and welcome  To a glad father . Rise , and let my teares ,  If joy confirm thy welcom .  No ? why ? what hast thou done ? where 's young Lafoy ?  My true friends sonne here ? whom I now must lock  Up in these armes , amidst a thousand welcomes .  Where 's the young man ?  Distract me not .  Let me look nearer .  Whow — whow , whow , who — my Thiese and Runaway .  Sir , your cause  Requires a Judges hearing .  'T is roundly spoken . Gentlemen , I 'le tell you .  This gallant youth , has gallanted away  A thousand pound of mine .  Canst bring me thither ?  You 'll aid me , sirs ?  This is the woman .  To whom I paid your money .  In that I 'm partly satisfied .  But saw you not two such Damsels here ?  You know not him here do you ?  'T is my man Cash .  We shall know more anon .  I would see a little  The fashions o' the house first .  Is not that the Hell-hounds voice ?  Good Captain go with us upon discovery .  But not too fast , Go sir , fetch down the wenches .  Thou shamelesse Reprobate . Doest thou hang thy head now ?  I 'le take a course to hang the rest o' thee .  Your Ladiships well met at the new school .  So is your Chare-woman . Ha' you profited  By the devils doctrine here ? you weep sin Swithin  For the iniquity of the times .  Sir Swithin , let 'em have it ,  This is the Gentleman I would have spoke for :  In birth , in meanes , in person every way  Deserving her . Take him upon my word .  With make good his word . Agree by your selves .  His daughters ? ours I fear ? what French ? where are they ?  What are you married .  Jun. Sir , she is mine , I must and will maintain it .  This is your daughter . And this mine . Each married to her brother .  I know not how to Blesse you , or to look  On your incestuous eyes .  J. Gab. We are .  Provided that we have our fathers leaves and councels .  Can you seek fathers leaves or councels now ,  That have run from 'hem in your disobedience ,  Into the snares of hell : too farre I fear  To be releast . O hell-bred Villain .  O that root of mischief ,  And of my Sisters flight as loth to appear to you ,  As to presume a welcom ; I was curious  First to observe the Town , and taste the newes ;  When more by Providence then accident ,  Here we made choice of lodging , saw and lik't  The practices of the Society ,  Until this wicked man ; ( who still presumes  To call you brother , ) finding us youthful strangers ,  And ( as he might suppose ) wanton —  He made  A bargain with you for their Maiden heads .  But must you therefore , knowing whose sons you were .  Marry you knew not whom .  VVhat ! and marry then  Each his own Sister ? Riddle me not to death .  You shall be then : And so take hands in earnest .  Is 't not a double Match Lafoy ?  I am full of joy .  Good boy , good boy . I know not how a City  Could stand without such Prentices . And hope  This wants few such . But what canst thou now say  Brother , o' one side for thy selfe . Speak quickly ,  VVhile the good humour holds me to be friends  VVith all the world : yet yonder 's one lies heavy  Athwart my stomack .  Brotherly spoke in troth .  And worthily worth an hundred mark a month ,  Shall ha 't .  Honestly said again . Now what say you ?  All 's too well me thinks .  But heark , before you break up school , le ts have  One frisk , one fling now , one cariering dance ,  And then pack up .  You have done well . Now pray le ts break up school . 