 I , there 's the Match —  I le endeavour 't Sir .  What before Supper ?  Construe more charitably , I beseech you ,  My Virgin blushes .  O my Theophilus .  It has been 'mong Maidens then .  But honour'd Sir ( I know what I will do )  To let you see and hear , since you desire  To have me shew a cheerfulness unto  My reverend Husband : Look you Sir , I 'le kiss him ,  Clap him , and stroke him : Ha , my Joe , ha , ha , ha , &c.   I 'le sing him songs too .  That I will chick , old songs and over old ones ,  Old as thy reverend self , my Chick a bird .  She made him a bed of the thistle down soft ,  Shee laid her self under to bear him a loft ,  And ever she sung sweet turn thee to me ,  Wee 'l make the new bed cry Jiggy Joggy .  Now may you answer .  Go to bed sweet heart I 'le come to thee ,  Make thy bed fine and soft I 'le lig with thee . Ha , ha , ha .  Pray do not beat me o' my wedding might , but tell me  How this and half a dozen chopping Children may  Become an old mans wife some five years hence .  Let women judge . T is very possible  That a young lusty wife may have six Children  By one at once in five years , Sir , and by  One Father too . I le make him young enough  To Father mine .  There was a Lady lov'd a swine .  And wilt thou be true love mine .  Yes , and my own house I hope . I pray be civil .  Shall we to bed , Sir , supperless ? you need  No stirring meats , it seems . I 'm glad on 't .  Come , biddy , come away , will you see Uncle  How I will love him i'bed ? come away .  That were to let in violence indeed .  These are some merry harmeless friends I warrant .  I knew I could not be so ill belov'd  Among the batchelers , but some would find  Way to congratulate our honoured Marriage .  Truly , not I Sir .  Some of my husbands friends perhaps , that came  To warn him of his fortune .  Lock the doors after 'em , and let us to bed ;  And lock our selves up , chick , safe from all danger .  Be not afraid to lie with me , good man ,  I le so restore thee ' gain with Cawdels and Cock-broths ,  So cuckle the up to morrow , thou shalt see —  Thou hast good store of goid , and shalt not want it  In Cullises : in every broth I le boil  An angel at the least .  But will you not lie with me then ?  Where be my bride-maids ?  Where be the maids , I say ; and Batchelors  To disappoint my husband .  I mean , to take your points . But you have none .  O thrifty age ! My Bridegroom is so wise ,  In stead of points , to hazzard hooks and eyes .  Hey ho , to bed , to bed , to bed .  No Bride so glad — to keep her Maiden-head .  Smart , Sir , did you say ?  I think 't was smart enough for a young Bride  To be made lye alone , and gnaw the sheets  Upon her wedding .  But for your satisfaction , as I hope  To gain your favour as you are my Uncle ,  I know not any acter in this business .  May I be worthy , Sir , to know your trouble ?  Am I your trouble then ?  And does that trouble you ?  A dream has done much more . Pray , Sir , your patience ,  And now I will be serious , and endeavour  To mend your faith in me . Is 't in their power  To destroy vertue , think you ; or do you  Suppose me false already ; t is perhaps  Their plot to drive you into that opinion .  And so to make you cast me out amongst 'em :  You may do so upon the words of strangers ;  And if they tell you all , your gold is counterfeit ,  Throw that out after me .  But since these men pretend , and you suppose 'em  To be my friends , that carry this presumption  Over my will , I le take charge of my self ,  And do fair justice , both on them and you :  My honour is my own ; and i 'm no more  Yours yet , on whom my Uncle has bestowed me ,  Then all the worlds ( the ceremony off )  And will remain so , free from them and you ;  Who , by the false light of their wild-fire flashes  Have slighted and deprav'd me and your bride bed ;  Till you recant your wilfull ignorance ,  And they their petulant folly .  Both they and you trench on my Peace and Honor ;  Dearer then beauty , pleasure wealth and fortune ;  I would stand under the fall of my estate  Most chearefully , and sing : For there be wayes  To raise up fortunes ruines , were her towers  Shattered in pieces , and the glorious ball  Shee stands on cleft asunder : But for Peace  Once ruin'd , there 's no reparation ;  If Honour fall , which is the soul of life ,  T is like the damned , it nere lifts the head  Up to the light again .  I ask but this , that you will give me leave  To keep a vow I made , which was last night  Because you slighted me .  My vow is for a moneth ; and for so long  I crave your faithful promise not to attempt me .  In the mean time because I will be quit  With my trim , forward Gentlemen , and secure you  From their assaults ; let it be given out ,  That you have sent me down into the countrey  Or back unto my Uncles ; whither you please .  So I intend , Sir , I le not leave your house ,  But be lock'd up in some convenient room  Not to be seen by any , but your selfe :  Or else to have the liberty of your house  In some disguise , ( if it were possible )  Free from the least suspition of your servants .  I 'm sure they stink most .  But for how long .  You speak much comfort , Sir .  Be 't any way .  'T would pull a blot upon my reputation .  You speak well for your self .  Well ; let it be so then : I am content .  All , Sir , to your dispose ,  Provided still you urge not to infringe  My vow concerning my virginity .  Why here 's a happiness in a husband now  What , are your servants gone ?  But now for my disguise .  Some horrible shape sure that he conjures so .  Come to the point . What 's the disguise , I pray you .  That of the Moor ?  The Backamore you spake of ? Would you make  An Negro of me .  Bless me ! you fright me , Sir . Can jealousie  Creep into such a shape ? Would you blot out  Heavens workmanship ?  Enough Sir , I am obedient .  There 's some comfort .  Some humbler habit must be thought on too .  And though I outwardly appear your Drudge ,  'T is fit I have a Maid for private service :  My breeding has not been to serve my self .  In the mean time , though you take pleasure in 't ,  My name has dearly suffered .  That you are a monstrous cuckold , and deserve it .  May I partake , Sir , of your rich conceit ?  And if I  Fail in the second , blame my houswifery .  I have heard thy story often , and with pitty  As often thought upon 't , and that the father ,  Of my best lov'd Theophilus , together with  His , then , friend Master Meanwell ( who have since  Become each others deathsman as t is thought )  By suits in Law wrought the sad overthrow  Of thy poor Fathers fortune ; by which means ,  Poor Gentleman he was enforc'd to leave  His native Country to seek forrain meanes  To maintain life .  Much pittiful !  He will be here to night , and all the crew  And this must be the night of my delivery ,  I am prevented else for ever , wench .  Peace , he comes .  I but wait the good hour  For my deliverance out of this obscurity .  No fee , O no , I darea notta .  O no de fine white Zentilmanna  Cannot a love a the black a thing a.   O take — a heed — a my mastra see — a.   Then I shall speak a more a.   Noble Sir , —  If ever you durst own a goodness ,  Now crown it by an act of honour and mercy .  I am th' unfortunate woman of this house ,  To all mens thoughts at rest . This is the face  On which the Hell of jealousie abus'd  The hand of Heaven , to fright the world withall .  The same ;  And onely to your secresie and pitty  I have ventur'd to appear my self again .  In trust and Manhood Sir , I would commit  A great charge to you , even my life and honor  To free me from this den of misery .  I would desire Sir , then to be convei'd . —  Pray let that rest . I will relieve your trouble  When I am freed from hence , and use some others .  Why dare you bear me Sir , to one you hate .  You profess —  Then , as we pass  I le tell you where they stand , Sir .  Indeed I am so , my Theophilus .  I was in my discovery too sudden .  Strong rapture of his joy transmutes him — Sir ,  Be not so wonder-struck ; or , if you be ,  Let me conjure you by the love you bore me ,  return unto your self again . Let not  A wandring thought fly from you , to examine  From whence , or how I came : If I be welcome  I am your own and Millicent .  You ask in vain for him .  I can resolve you all ; but for the present  He will be known to none .  This was my fear . Will you have patience ,  And fit but in this chair while I relate my story .  Never here .  Hadst thou not given thy faith to a divorce ,  On forfeiture of thine estate , which thou  Dost hold more precious ; or couldst now redeem  That great ingagement ; and then multiply  Thy past estate into a tenfold sum .  Make me inheritrix of all ; and last assure me  To die within a week , I le not re-marry thee :  Adulterate beast , that brok'st thy former wedlock  In thy base lust with that thy servant there .  In him 't was foul enough though . 