 What art thou ?  A young Pimpe , a very sucking-pig Pimpe ! What an Age is this , when children play at such great game ! So young , so forward !  This Infant piece of Impudence amazes me . Prithee what art thou ? or whom dost thou serve , or broke for .  I am catch'd ? This habite will betray me . What is shee , I say .  For what wants she a Physitian ?  Not at his house ?  Prithee , what call'st thy Mistres ?  T is but a weak ingagement : yet I le goe ;  Needlesse are feares , where Fortunes are so low .  Let me see , to night it will be full Moon . And she scape the turning of the next Tyde , I will give her a gentle Vomit in the morning , that shall ease her stomack of this conflux of venomous humours , and make her able to sit a hunting Nag within this sennight .  Well sayd , spit out gently , straine not your selfe too hard .  T is very well done . La'you . Her colour begins to come . I le lay all my skill to a messe of Tewksbury Mustard , shee sneezes thrice within these three houres —  Dangerous enough Sir . For shee is sicker in minde then in body . For I finde most plainely the effects of a deep melancholly , falne through her distemperature of passion upon her Liver ; much disordering , and withall wasting the vitals , leaving scarce matter for Physick to worke on . So that her minde receiving  the first hurt , must receive the first cure .  So so : Straine not your selfe too hard . No hurt ; so so .  Here 's melancholly and choller both in plenty .  Do you not know , Sir , any that has offended her by open injury , or unkindnesse ?  Then , on my life , t is Love that afflicts her .  I have toucht her to the quick . I have found her disease , and that you may prove the abler Doctor in this extremity .  Here he is Lady . Pray speak your minde to him . Must I pull you to her ? Here he is . What do you say to him ? Pray speak .  She hath something troubles her that concernes onely you . Pray take her by the hand , do as I intreat you . Lady we will go , and leave you in private awhile , if you please .  Do you perceive nothing in this passion of hers ?  How does she feel your hand ?  You are then the man Sir , the happy man . For she shall recover suddenly .  By your leave . Pray by your leave . Help Women . Beare up her Body a little . Bow it forwards . So , speak to her , Sr.  Good Lady drink of this Cordyal .  What now shee is drinking — Now speake Sir , you or no man must do her good .  Well said Sir , speak chearfully to her .  What Devill sent this fury among us ?  I tell her so , Lady , yet shee calls for it still .  Sfoot , t is time to part you — Mistres , I beseech your help , joyn'd with your vertuous Mothers .  I forget you not Lady . But I wish you to beware of these Courtiers , till I tell you what they are :  As for the Manner and Forme t is no matter . To the Legacies , briefly .  Beyond my expectation ! Better then I for a Doctor .  I collected as much by your young Whiskin that brought me hither .  Yes , yes , we must all agree , and be linckt in Covenant together .  Witty Jeff . I cannot see which can be spar'd from the rest , least the whole trade break .  Thou art a brave Lad , and in the high way of preferment .  And for you Damsell , as I sayd before , say to your selfe , the Match is yours .  Right fortunately-learned Sir . So passionately doth his Grace approve the Language , Literature , and Haviour of your sometimes Pupill , Master Tobias Sneakup .  That I was , with all expedition , commanded to intreat your instant Attendance .  'T is even so Sir ; You are like to possess a Princes eare ; you may be in place , where you may scorn your foes ; countenance your friends ; cherish vertue , controule vice , and despise fortune : Yes sure shall you Sir . And ( which I had almost forgot ) your old Pupill intreats you to send him by me the ten pound he lent you : An od ten pound , that he may be furnish'd with the more seemly Complements to conduct you to his Grace .  I am much griev'd for 't . It was your sonnes much labouring , that Mr. Crasie was sent for , to sell his Grace some Jewells : But since his fortunes are so sunk that he hides his head , I can but lament his losse .  I , now you come to the point .  By your husband .  Nay admire .  WEll Dol , ( that thou saist is thy name ) though J had forgotten thee , J protest . About London-wall was it ( saist thou ? ) Well , J cannot but highly commend thy wisdom in this , that so  well hast mended thy election ; from being a fountain of aches , bald brows , and broad plasters , thus to remember thy Creation .  But all my wonder is at the means , how thou gott'st into this house and reputation . And to be held a woman of such an estate .  I thinke thou art acquainted any way , to set out knavery .  If not , Sir , your Bond is due to night : For it is equally payable at your hour of death .  If you please to be friend Mr. Crasy but wich thirty pound , I le set it receiv'd upon the Bond . Here it is . And he shall demand no more till it be due .  And thank you too , good M. Linsie VVolsie , that knew so well , a bargaine was a bargaine , and would not part with your money to be laugh'd at among your neighbours . I would heartily now , if I could intend it . But I must purse your money , and then about my Court affairs . This wench I am infinitely beholden to . She remembers some old curtesie that I have forgotten . Perhaps I pidled with her when I was Prentice .  O , my glorified Pedant in his most naturall strut !  Mr. Crasie . Is not one Mr. Crasie here ?  Well done : Be bold Sir . Let not your dissimulation be read in your eyes . You know me ; give me the Jewells .  Let me alone to present them to his Grace , and praise them , before you are call'd .  Yes ; For you know I must not seem to indeare them before your face : For that would smell rank of correspondency .  But betwixt us both wee 'l make a shift to cheat him . Stay you here . I will returne instantly . O Mr. Sarpego ! Your Pupill will come and conduct you presently .  Thus sometimes , by deceit , deceit is known :  'T is honest craft , by wit to get ones own . —  NOw , whilst my politike Mother-in-Law is in expectation of her great adventure , and my worshipfull Father-in-Law stinks at Court for feare of her ; I in this last disguise will pursue my new affairs . Me-thinks these Jewells smile on me now more chearfully then when they were mine owne before . First to my honest Punk .  With thy sister . Dost thou not know mee Jeffrey . Where is she ? Look better on me .  O , is it you Sir ? Hang me if I knew you in this habit ; though I was set here on purpose to watch for you .  What 's the matter Jeffrey ?  What new device is this ? [ he reads . ] Since I last saw you , your Mother-in-Law , Mrs. Sneakup , has earnestly dealt with me to make me a Bride for her sonne Tobias . If there may be any thing wrought out of it to benefit you , I will suddenly take occasion to  break with the Foole Wolsie ; of whom I am heartily weary ; and after , be wholly disposed by you . Sure this wench studies nothing but my profit . Well : I have thought already to make the best of her . Now to my new Mistresse . This is the house , and here 's her maid .  With your Mistresse , ( I take it ) Mistresse Crasie .  My business is of weight and secresie : yet you may tell her , here is the Gentleman that her Doctor sent her .  These Letters must necessarily come from my Brace of Courtiers , Sir Ticket , and Monsieur Rufflit , which I will read cleane contrary , as if they slighted her , and answer them acrosse from her meaning , as if she slighted them : And so letting my selfe downe into their inwards on both sides , what they can get , or what my wife has , will I pump into mine owne purse .  Even he : He saies , he understands that you affect a Mountebanck . Sure , your Doctor is but some base bragging Rascall .  How should Sir Andrew know else that he is come to embrace you to night ?  How ! contracted .  But now , if the agitation of my Braines should work through my Browes . If my Wives pitifull hand should fall to composition with my Doctors Pate , and my deceit be discovered before the Bastinado had given charge to his Shoulders , were not my Forehead in apparant danger . T is done in three minutes . Death , my Courtier has a sanguine Complexion : He is like a Cock sparrow , Chit , Chit , and away . Heart o' man ! And I should be blown up in mine own Mine now ! Ha .  Come faith , because I would have both your Shoulders , go in one Livery , I must disclose . Why sir , Knavery is restorative to me , as Spiders to Monkeys . The poyson of wit feeds me .  Look you sir , he 's come . Stand close , take this Cudgell , grasp it strongly , stretch your Sinewes lustily ; And when you see him hang by the middle in a Rope , let your Fist fall thick , and your Cudgell nimbly .  Good sir .  above : Here sir , here . O I watcht to do you a good turn . Will you mount sir ? 