 Y' are the first Maid that ere I entertain'd  Upon so small acquaintance . Yet y' are welcom ,  I like your hand and carriage .  Stay there Phillis .  I may , by that , conjecture you have been  Deceiv'd by some false Lover .  For the most part .  Thou saidst , me thought , that love might be tane in  At the first fight   Suppose she love an enemy to her house .  But 't is no case of mine ; put by I pray thee .  Pray thee no more .  Thou hast won  My patience to attention : Therefore tell me  If thou canst find or think it honourable  In me to take such an affection ?  My good Maid —  Thou hast given me strength to tell thee , and I hope  When it is told , I shall have yet more ease .  I love that worthy Gentleman ; and am confident  That in the time of our two fathers friendship  He ' affected me no less : But since that time  I have not seen him , nor dare mention him  To wrong my brothers patience , who is so passionate ,  That could he but suspect I bred a thought  That favour'd him , I were for ever lost .  For this sad cause , as well as for the loss  Of my dear Father , I have sigh'd away  Twelve Moons in silent sorrow ; and have heard  That Arthur too ( but for what cause I know not )  Has not been seen abroad ; but spends his time  In pensive solitude .  The best construction ,  I make of his retiredness , is the blest  Prevention ( which I daily pray for ) of  A fatal meeting 'twixt him and my Brother ,  Which would be sure the death of one or both .  And now that fear invades me , as it does alwayes ,  My Brother being abroad ; and such an absence  Has not been usual : I have not seen him  Since yesterday —  What , were you at the wedding , Brother ?  Your lost love Millicents . Are you now sad  After your last leave taking ?  There may be other matches , my good Brother —  Pray Brother pardon me .  I took her , as I find her , for my comfort ,  She has by councel and discourse wrought much  Ease and delight into my troubled thoughts .  What is it brother ?  It was then against Arthur .  What villain was 't durst take your cause in hand  Against that man ?  But how can that afflict you ?  Good Brother I ha' done .  My Brother attends your news Sir .  Good brother do , it has a fine beginning .  Would he refuse his bride-bed the first night ?  Pray brother tell him .  I thank you , Brother , that you promise me  You will not follow him now , some other time  Will be more fit . What said he to you , Phillis ?  Troth , but t is like his wild way of expression .  My blood chills again .  Indeed you were unkind to turn away  My maid ( poor harmless maid ) whose innocent mirth  Was the best chear your house afforded me .  Now you fly out again .  Is not this passion , brother ?  Arnold , forbear his sight .  Brother be comforted .  Be griev'd then , I le grieve with you : For each sigh  You waste for Millicents untimely death  I le spend a tear for your as fruitless sorrow .  So it is ;  All but the stony part of 't .  All for your love .  Sit down brother .  Sing boy the mornful song I bad you practise .  I know not brother how you like the air ,  But in my mind the words are sad , Pray read 'em .  O brother —  If I durst  I would now say , this were the better beauty ,  For it resembles Arthurs .  Hers was a good one once , and this is now .  You are most welcome , Sir , and were her name  To which you are allied , a stranger here ,  Yet , Sir , believe me , you in those fair eyes  Bring your own welcome with you .  Let not your gentle modesty make you seem  Ungentle to us , by turning so away .  Indeed you are too pensive : two whole dayes  And nights among us , and no more familiar ?  How is it with you , sir .  Sir , something troubles you . See your kinswoman  My brother stands intranc'd too ; Brother , brother —  Noble Lady , speak to him .  He is not hurt at all  My honour'd father , as I desire your blessing ,  But stricken with an extasie of joy .  More then life , Sir . 