 O , are you here Sir ! You have spun a fair thred .  Here 's much ado , and little help . We can make bolt nor shaft , find neither head nor foot in your business . My daughter and I may both curse the time , that ever we saw the eyes of thee .  He sayes he heares thee , and is asham'd to see thee . Hast not undone our Daughter ? spent her Portion ; deceiv'd our hopes ; wasted thy fortunes ; undone thy credite ; prov'd Bankrupt ?  Kind heart ! What should Citizens do with kind hearts ; or trusting in any thing but God , and ready money ?  Marry depart in peace Sir . Vanish in silence Sir . I 'le take my Daughter home Sir . She shall not beg with you Sir . No marry shalt thou not ; no , ' deed Duck shalt thou not .  Honest man ! Who the Devill wish'd thee to be an honest man ? Here 's my worshipfull Husband , Mr. Sneakup , that from a Grasier is come to be a Justice of Peace : And , what , as an honest man ? Hee grew to be able to give nine hundred pound with my daughter ; and , what , by honestie ? Mr. Sneakup and I are come up to live i' th City , and here we have lyen these three years ; and what ? for honesty ? Honesty ! What should the City do with honesty ; when 't is enough to undoe a whole Corporation ? Why are your Wares gumm'd ; your Shops dark ; your Prizes writ in strange Characters ? what , for honesty ? Honesty ? why is hard waxe  call'd Merchants waxe ; and is said seldome or never to be rip'd off , but it plucks the skin of a Lordship with it ? what ! for honesty ? Now ( mortified my Concupiscence ! ) Dost thou think , that our Neighbour , Master Linsy-Wolsie here , from the sonne of a Tripe-wife , and a Rope-maker , could aspire to be an Aldermans Deputy ; to be Worshipfull Mr. Linsie-Wolsie ; Venerable Mr. Linsie-wolsie ; to weare Sattin sleeves , & whip Beggars ? And , what ? By honesty ? Have we bought an Office , here , for our towardly and gracious son and heire here , young Mr. Sneakup —  And made him a Courtier , in hope of his honesty ? Nay , ( once for all ) Did we marry our Daughter , here , to thee ; rack'd our Purses to pay Portion ; left Country house-keeping to save charges , in hope either of thine , or her honesty ? No , we look'd , that thy Ware-house should have eaten up Castles , and that for thy narrow Walke in a Jewellers shop , a whole Countrey should not have suffic'd thee .  Nay , and thou hast been married three years to my Daughter , and hast not got her with Child yet ! How do'st answer that ? For a woman to be married to a fruitfull Fool , there is some bearing with him yet . ( I know it by my self ) but a dry barren Fool ! How dost thou satisfie that ?  O impudent varlet ! Defect in my Daughter ? O horrible indignity ! Defect in my Daughter ? Nay , 't is well known , before ever thou sawest her , there was no defect in my Daughter .  Marry Sir , and have it with all his heart . My Husband is a man of few words , and hath committed his tongue to me : And I hope I shall use it to his Worship . Fare you well Sir .  He rather thanks you for your patience , and kind visitation , good Sir Andrew Ticket . Yes indeed forsooth does he .  Uds so ! ther 's a trick ! you must talk , must you ? And your Wife in presence , must you ? As if I could not have said , good Madame . Good Madame ! Do you see how it becomes you ?  Good Madame , I beseech your Ladiship to excuse our deficiency of Entertainment . Though our power be not to our wish , yet we wish that our Power were to your Worth , which merrits better service —  Then our rudenesse —  Can tender , or possibly expresse by —  Our best labour , or utmost devoire . Yes I protest sweet Madame . I beseech you , as you passe by in Coach sometimes , vouchsafe to see me ; and , if I come to Court , I will presume to visite your Ladiship , and your worthy Knight , Good Sir Andrew ! And I pray you Madame , how does your Monckey , your Parrot , and Parraquitoes ? I pray commend me to 'em , and to all your little ones . Fare you well , sweet Creature .  How comes it Mr. Wolsey , that you have a Gentlewoman sick in your house , and not send for me ? Let me feel her hand . Alasse she is shrewdly distemper'd . When had shee a stoole Sir , Prithee Daughter step home to my Closet , and bring the Viall of — my owne Water , which stands next to my blew Velvet Cabinet .  Shee 's a young Gentlewoman ; may have many Children yet , let me note her eyes : I finde nothing there . When did you see her water Mr. Doctor ?  In troth I beshrew you , Mr. Wolsey , you sent not for me , but I hope I come not too late . Pluck up a Womens heart , you shall find a good Neighbour of me .  Alas talk not of your will . You shall have time enough to think of that many yeares hence .  Lord how my Daughter stayes . Good Sir Andrew Ticket ! worthy Mr. Rufflit ! My Sonne Tobias is highly honor'd in your noble Acquaintance , and Courtly conversation .  I most intirely thank you for him . And I do beseech you make your selves no strangers to my poor house . Wee are alone ; can give but light entertainement , my Daughter and I ; since my Sonne Crasies misfortune drave him from us —  O welcome Daughter — I beseech you noble Sirs estrange not your selves to us , your Servants .  Give me the Viall Daughter . Take up the Lady . Tast of this . It is a Composition of mine owne distilling .  Well done . Nay it will make you break wind , I tell you .  How is it now , good heart ?  O where 's Mr. Sarpego ? Fortunate Mr. Sarpego ? Venerable Mr. Sarpego ? O Sir , you are made . Never thinke under right worshipfull . Imagine nothing beneath Damasque Gownes , Velvet Jackets , Satten Sleeves , Silk Nightcaps , two Pages and a Footcloth .  It is ! What is it ? You will be speaking , will you ? And your Wife in presence , will you ? you shew your bringing up . Master Sarpego , blesse the time that ever you knew the Progeny of the Sneakups : my worshipfull Son and Heire apparent hath preferred you to be the young Prince his Tutor . Here 's Mr. Holywater , a Gentleman ; of place , a Courtier ; of Office , is sent for you .  Whist Mr. Sarpego . Let not your poverty be read in your face . Here 's ten pieces . Bear it as your own payment : You talk of ten pound for my Son , Sir .  Shall I tell you Sir , ( pray you husband stand aside ; ) My Son-in-Law Crasie is not now worth — his very wife . We hop'd he would have prov'd a crafty Merchant , and he prov'd an honest man , a Begger ( if I chance to speak above your capacity , I pray tell me of  it ) And as I said , when I perceiv'd he began to melt , and that every stranger abused him ; I , having some wit , fell too , and most cozen'd him my self . I look'd for my daughters good : And so betwixt us , found the trick to get , or steale from him two Jewells of good deep value , being indeed the main of his rest of Fortune . Now Sir , I come to you .  Right Sir : For there is no woman , though she use never so many by-words , but yet in the end she will come to the point . Now Sir , I having these Jewells , will send them by my husband . A poor easie weak man , as you see ; but very obedient in truth —  Yes , do you mark ? By my husband . But now note my wit : His Grace knows not Crasie : My husband , habited like a Citizen , shall take the name of Crasie upon him ; offer his Jewells to the Prince ; you shall present them ; praise them and raise them : His Grace payes ; my husband returns ; and we will share . Do you approve ?  Away then . No Complement among good wits ; but away . Come your ways hither , good man ; Put off your hat ; Make a leg ; Look simply . Why so ! Pish , ne're tell me : He will make a rare Citizen . I have Jewells for you to carry to the Prince .  La ! you are so quick ! I have charg'd you not to shoot your bolt , before you understand your mark . And you shall carry them like a Citizen ; call your self Crasie ; sell them at my price ; and now cast no further . You see the limits of your understanding . Now Sir , how will you bear your self to his Grace ?  How behave your selfe at Court ?  Why , that was well spoken . Modest mistrust is the first step to knowledge . Remember that sentence . Now mark . I will instruct you : When you come at the Court gate , you may neither knocke nor pisse . Do you mark ? You go through the Hall cover'd ; through the great Chamber cover'd ; through the Presence bare ; through the Lobby cover'd ; through the Privy Chamber bare ; through the Privy Lobby cover'd ; to the Prince bare .  Umh , yes : but ( like the Exchequer payment ) somewhat abated .  Cover'd .  Bare .  Well thought on . Something he has in him like my husband ! But now you come before the brow of Royalty . Now for your carriage there Sir : Suppose me the Prince . Come in , and present . Here sits the Prince . There enters the Jeweller . Make your honors . Let me see you do it handsomly .  Kneele .  What ?  An 't please your Grace , I have certain Jewells to present to your liking .  Is this Crasie , that had wont to serve me with Jewells ? It is that honest man , so please your Highnesse . That 's for M. Holywater , the by-flatterer to speak . You are a Cuckoldly Knave , Sirrah , and have often abused me with false and deceitfull stones .  Why that was well , Very well . I perceive there is a certain infection taken with lying with a woman that hath a good wit . I finde it by my husband . Come , I 'le disguise you , and away to Court instantly .  No , no , A fool is never discover'd among mad-men .  Am I then cheated ? my wit begins to be out of countenance . O the Plague that hangs over her head that has a foole to her husband , as thou and I have daughter .  O deare daughter , my Lady Ticket writes here , that the fool , thy father , is cheated of two rich Jewells , that thou and I stole from the Ideot thy husband Crasie .  A very Citizen , a very Citizen . How should I call you Sir ? .  Pyannet Sneakup , Sir .  So my Lady Ticket writes , Sir .  Recompence ? Sir command me , command my daughter , my maid , my house , onely tell it I beseech you .  I apprehend you Sir . Bring her to me ; lodge her with me ; I le call you Cousen I . Is she very rich ? At a neer neighbours , said you , — Not she at Mr. Wolsies , is it ?  ( By 'r Lady a match for my Esquir'd son and heire . Beare a braine dancer , or I may chance to shew you a crosse caper . ) Sir , bring your Widdow . Sweare to your selfe my house is yours . Now the plot , or I burst .  Stand off daughter : I will not trust mine own flesh with a secret ; for in truth I have found it fraile . Now speak , I beseech you .  Nay that 's indubitable , I know it by my self .  'T is most plaine : I will have such a revenge , as never woman had .  You are a Wittally Cuckold I know . I commend thy wives modesty yet : She will not doe it afore thy face , but will send thee out of an errand yet .  Nay , I look you should seem ignorant : What , to take sense or notice of your horne , as long as it winds you into profit , were most uncourtly . Well , you heare not me rage nor rave : marry I will slit the Drabs nose , crop off her eares , scratch out her eyes —  Teare off her haire , plucke out her throat , that 's all . Come along Sir .  Are you lull'd in your delights ? No pillow for your Goatish , head , but her Ladyships lap ?  You are ignorant still , I know : But I will make thy bones suffer as well as my browes . Thou Cullion , could not thine own Cellar serve thee , but thou must be sneaking into Court Butteries ?  Art thou there , daughter of an Intelligencer , and strumpet to a Bearward ?  How now Madam Tiffany ! Will none but my Cock serve to tread you ? Give me my Jewells thou Harlot .  Bestow steeping thy skin in perfumes to kill the stink of thy paintings , and rotten inwards to catch Cockscombs .  But thou shalt not cozen , and Cucquean me ▪   A whip on her ; rotten eggs and kennell dirt on her silken Whoreship .  Did um so ? The Countrey Gentlewoman was more chaste in a Bastard , then the Court Madam in her barrennesse . You understand me ; you have no Green-sicknesse there , yet ( I hope ) you have few Christ'nings ; you have trickes for that , have you ?  You have your Kickshaws , your Players March-paines ; all shew and no meat .  Well : And didst not thou in as much privacy counsell me to contemn my husband , and use an Italian trick that thou wouldst teach me ?  Ods my precious — —   How 's this —  Take this , and take all . Why goody Complexion , thou Rammy Nastinesse , thou knowest wherefore  thy Gentlewoman left thee ; did she not sweare that she —  Had rather be at the opening of a dead old man , then stand dressing thy head in a morning . Remember the Page that wore thy picture , and the song which thou hadst in the praise of the male Baboon .  Hold you your peace ; do not you prate .  Is it even so ?  I humbly beseech you sweet Madam , that my earnest and hearty sorrow may procure remission for my inconsiderate and causelesse Invectives . Let my confession seem satisfactory , and my contrition win indulgency to my forgetfull delinquency . I pray you let us kisse and be friends .  VVell , 't was mine error , not malice ; but as for the procurer of it , if I pay not him in his owne Coyne — Mr. Footwell ! I le shew you a trick of twenty . Come son , I have a wife for thee .  I , my boy , a Wife —  And such a one as thou shalt blesse me for procuring . Curteously farewell , sweet Madam : Where 's my Fool ? Come , leave the Court sirrah , and man your owne wife into the City —  Nay , and has not a hole to put thy head in , but upon my curtesie .  A Gentleman of another spheare , another ranck then you are Sirrah ; that shall have three hundred yeare in Esse , and five in Posse .  Yes sir , Is there not profit in this dealing ?  Mum . A word to the wise . —  Here sir , upon this consideration , that you disclaim and renounce all interest —  In this Gentlewoman ; and do vow , never to pretend future claim to her .  This night , Son ; t is very late .  Indeed , he that deales with Woman , must take occasion by the fore Lock . Away —  What shall no device , no mirth solemnize my sons match ? Go Sneakup , call downe our daughter .  In despight of sicknesse , mirth and joy shall make this night healthfull .  By the leave of your wisdome daughter , wee 'l take the wall of your precisenesse : for Mr. Sarpego has told me of a learned subject for a Ballet , which wee shall see acted presently .  And my husband the Fool .  Let learning direct , I am not to prescribe to the Muses .  Seat you Gallants . Sit , sweet Sir Andrew , Madam , and the rest , and wee 'le imagine Musick , as M. Sarpego bids us .  How now ! By what misrule comes he to trouble us ?  You Sir , I know your purpose , and it is prevented ; you come after the Marriage to forbid the banes . Ha ha ha — you are short , M. Wolsie , you are short .  How 's that ?  Since you come friendly , you are welcome , M. Wolsie . Pray sit with us , and heare your Hymeneall Song .  He sings Hymen and Hymen ; but me-thinkes the song is scandalous to the Marriage .  O , is it so Sir ? I knew not what to make of it .  Why how now daughter ? Are you well ? Methinks you over-do it too much .  Dear son !  My sonne and my heir is utterly undone .  O impudence beyond womans apprehension ! Sonne Crasie , we have all wrong'd thee , thou know'st it ; thou hast reveng'd it , we feel it ; only do not undo my heire , save him , bring him but off o'th is match with any loss .  Woman , we do pray thee , we do beseech thee , even upon our knees — have pity on the house of the Sneakups : quit my son , relinquish  thy right , make frustrate this marriage , and look thee , before these able witnesses , we heartily forgive all , and forget : And withall , freely bestow this chaine upon thee —  I , you must make frustrate the Marriage ; for look you , you have receiv'd it .  O horrible !  And for the cure that he has wrought on me ,  I will applaud his wit ; and blesse the light  It gave me to discover my foule error :  Which by his demonstration shew'd so monstrous ,  That I must loath my self , till I bee purg'd .  Sir , by your fair forgivenesse , which I kneel for — 