 Good morrow my good Lord . How fares the King ?  I that have not seen him  Since he was sick , can guess , then at the cause  Of his distemper . He is sick o' th' subject ;  Th' unquiet Commons fill his head and breast  With their impertinent discontents and strife .  The peace that his good care has kept 'hem in  For many years , still feeding them with plenty ,  Hath , like ore pampered steeds that throw their Masters ,  Set them at war with him . O misery of kings !  His vertue breeds their vices ; and his goodness  Pulls all their ills upon him . He has been  Too long too lenetive : A thousand heads  ( Or say a hundred , or but ten ) cut off  Of the most gross ones , the prime , leading heads  Of theirs a moneth since , had preserv'd him better  Then all his doctors pills can purge him now .  What 's that Justinius ?  I fear , in that  Ambitious pate lies the combustable stuff  Of all this late commotion .  On no good .  It is some divellish waking dream affects him .  I 'le put him out — And as I was about  To say my Lord .  About a moneth since ,  It stick still in my jaws . Be not ambitious ,  Affect not popularity . 'T is the most  Notable break-neck in a kingdom .  I know to whom I speak ; would Stratocles  As well knew who he is , and what he does :  It would be better for him . Thank me not ,  I wish it for the king and kingdoms good ,  Not yours I do assure you , my great Lord ;  Yet mine own Peer , if you forget me not .  When you may be my King ,  And then up goes Disanius . Is 't not so ?  The Court now priviledges thee , or I would change  A cuffe with your great Souldier-ship and popular greatness  With clowns and Citizens , and Gentry , sprung  By their late peaceful wealth , out of their dongue .  But let 'em thank our pious King , not you  That claim ( as merit for your service done )  Their loves and voices .  Wee 'll attend his entrance .  I attend  Your Highness pleasure .  O my brave brother !  T were good youl 'd hear the king — A general ,  Or a Generals son may be elected . There  Your Majesty left .  Now think upon my Nephewes , Royal Master ,  The sons of brave Adrastus , who was slain  Twenty years since in fighting of your battel .  O here they come . These be the principals 4 Rustiks .  The heads , the heads , forsooth they call themselves .  Head-carpenter , head-smith , head-plowman , & head-shepherd .  And because you have  Govern'd them long in peace , by which they thrive  Their wisdom would have you intail that piece  On them for after times ; and so they nominate  Ambitious Stratocles to be your heir .  That information  Was meerly by suggestion ( I dare speak it )  Insinuated by Stratocles . They both live  And are upon return .  Did not I say , 't was Stratocles that rais'd  That hideous rumor of their deaths , among  His wilde idolators , in hope to gain  Election by their ignorance and rudeness ?  And how they then shrunk in their necks from Stratocles !  It has so laid the flames of his ambition ,  That these may safely now tread out the fire .  Good woman , cry thee mercy . Mothers are such things !  O the old night-piece with her dark lanthorne by her .  So is my horse my horse .  Geron . th' art welcom . Thou still keepst thy humor ,  Thy travels ha' not chang'd thee . Thou camest home  As wise as thou wentst out .  Enough , I 'le give thee over .  Yes by all means : For as one Whilome said  The blinde are best i' th' dark .  And Governour Geron , wait upon your mother ,  Trust our cares with your charge .  She longs to hear  Which of the two is prickt to be her husband .  Let me be Clerk . I hope at least to read it .  Contend not for the Jewel , which  Ere long shall both of you enrich .  Pursue your Fortune : For t is she  Shall make you what you seem to be .  Apollo , thy great wisdom hath quite fool'd mine .  Nephews , the Gods had need be cautilous  For what they speak if you may be their Judges .  Look to the Princess .  A love-qualm .  To bed with her and call for Cupids aid ,  He best can cure the wound that he has made .  Stratocles ,  You lose the glory of your deeds by blazing  Your own renown . He that commends himself ,  Speaks upon trust , and is his hearers slave .  Souldler , I dare yet tell thee thou art rash ;  Foolish as valliant ; and as easily may'st  For all thy lostiness be undermin'd  As the base bramble : Boasting weakness , thee  And promising Ambition leads thee up  An earthly exhalation into th' air ;  Where with a little borrow'd light , one moment ,  Thou shin'st the mark and wonder of all eyes ;  But soon consum'd and darted to the Center ,  Becom'st the scorn of men and sport of Children .  Then shall you hear  Your now adorning multitude upbraid  Your insolence and pride , and gain the name  Of Prophets by your downfall , while one swears  He had foretold it long ; Another dreampt it ;  All joyntly cry we never could indure him ;  See what a look he has ; what brawny lips ;  What poysonous eyes ; and what an impudent front !  I am too prodigal  Of seed upon so flinty soyl as thou .  Be as thou art , and perish .  All we can say or hear is , she was taken  Out of her private walks by violent hands ,  Onely we guesse the master of the plot  Was Stratocles , who now is missing in the Court .  T was a fit glosse for his fowl treachery .  Could we finde Stratocles , she might be found .  'Gainst whom ?  You may as soon  Believe the Artick and Antartick poles  Can meet it opposition , amidst  The firmament , and jointly in a fall  Extinguish both their lights in Neptunes bosom .  Stratocles is the head  We may be confident ; and his men the pipes  That have dispers't it .  O my sister  Has heard the news too . Weep not tender sister ,  Your sons are safe .  Here 's one that makes a face , an ugly one ,  And would weep too , had she but moisture in her .  How now ! Whose Mare 's dead , Garrula ? Take thy bottle  And turn that into tears . Or dost thou wring  Thy face because that 's dry ? Gi'mee 't , I 'le fill it .  And is death so unkind to keep it shut  Against him ? Out upon him churle .  Away old fool .  For thy good wil  The king would thank thee , in offering at some mirth  To cool his grief , but that it is too hot  Yet to be touch'd .  And so wilt thou while thou canst lift thy bottle  To that old Mazer .  Do you rejoyce , and shew the rotten half tooth  You have left that they are dead .  Out envious trot   away you Hag ,  Here comes one merry look .  Well said , speak up and home good   Where is Stratocles ?  Bravely and honestly spoken Eupathus .  What his country heads ?  Brave heads  Observe my judgement now , my king : Those heads  I will so souse in our best Greekish Wines ,  That they shall be such heads ! O heads , heads , heads !  A halter still him  For an ambitious hypocritical Traytor .  Hee 'l bestow her yet  On Stratocles , if she stand longer doubtful  In a fair choise .  O brave heads ! I will so ring  Their ears with jewels of praises and preferment  That they shall glare like direful comets at him .  Is it even so ?  Nephews , why left you so the presence ? I  May justly fear you were ill advis'd in it .  The King expects your quick return , and will not  Let pass this peremptory day , set down  For matching of his daughter ; to preserve  Life , State , or Kingdom . Have you a purpose ,  First having beg'd that villain Stratocles pardon ,  To give him up your interest in the Princess ?  The Kingdom too , to boot ? will you compel  The King to give him all ?  What do you less in flying from the presence ,  When that affair is now in agitation ?  Therefore  You both flie off to travel several wayes !  Come , let me tell you your courtesie is foolish ,  And you unworthy to have such a fortune  Hang like a pregnant cloud over your heads  Ready to be dissolv'd in showres upon you ,  While your own madness conjures up a wind  To blow 't away .  I could even swadle 'em both for a brace of Babyes .  Your folly makes me mad : will you return  Yet to the presence , both of you ?  Nephew , come , be wise :  It is a crown that Courts you ; and the name  Of friend , or Brother ought to stand aloof ,  And know a distance , where such dignity  Is tendred . Take your opportunity ,  I find you coming , come .  I 'le take him for the wiser man then . Nephew ,  Come , and embrace your fortune , and forget not  To thank the Gods your Brother has no more wit .  A Kingdom and a beauteous bed-fellow  ( There Nephew , there ! ) Do not those bare a sound  'Bove friend and Brother , ha ?  What frost has ceiz'd their blood , & brains , which neither  Beauty nor dignity can thaw ? Go travel .  What stay you for ? young Gentlemen sometimes  Wait for a gale of gold to blow 'em out  O' th' harbour ; Stratocles will furnish you ,  And thank you more then for his forfeit life .  Shall I make a motion ,  Will one of you remain ?  Then yield to take your lots for 't . ( I will make 'em )  As you respect my love ; your mothers life ;  The kingdoms good ; Eudynas love and life ,  Let it be so . Pause not upon 't , but do 't .  See , here 's ink and paper . I am inspir'd ,  Apollo , with thy wisdom . Love . — and friendship .  See , here 's a pass for one , and a plantation  For tother . Love and friendship Gentlemen .  Love shall abide at home , and friendship walk ,  According to the custom of the world .  Let it be so . Come study not , but draw ,  I 'le draw upon ye both else .  Kick not your heels against the Gods , Philargus ,  It is most evidently their decree  That you abide and Philocles remove .  Why should that trouble you ? you see he does  Forgo 't ; and is a going . Would he were gone once .  So , so , enough . Ha' ye done yet ?  For shame  Leave womanish ceremony . Will you part  Before it be too late ?  What is he dead ? I see then how it comes .  You or your man , or both ha' poyson'd him .  Thou wilt not go out o' th' world  With a lie i' thy mouth ? Speak yet again ,  Wilt thou die mad too ?  Come , Sir , let go your whiblin . He has yet  Some breath . Run for Physitians — No , Sir , stay .  I will not quit you so . I can read guilty lines  Palpably on this villans visnomy .  Is there no more i' th' house ? some help here ! ho !  Nephew forbear . As you will have me think  You guiltless of your brothers blood , forbear .  How am I tortur'd ! Ho! Philargus ; rub him ,  Rub him , he may live yet .  So , well said : A box  Or two in kindness will not do amiss .  Stir not you sirrah . O , Sir , you lay hold  On that same traytor .  I 'le hold you to your word , Sir , run , Sir , you  And fetch Physitians .  Stay but to look upon him , and I 'le swear  Thou art his murderer . Fetch the Kings Physitians ,  If not to cure him ; yet to rip the cause  Out of his sodain death . I guess they 'l finde  Your handy-work in 's maw .  What has he sent . Has he sent means  To call this man from death , or that from falling  After him into th' grave ?  But , come I will not cry tho' . Pray assist me ,  In with this body , Charity commands  When griev'd necessity intreats your hands .  Grieve not your father Madam .  So that 's well said .  I that I thirst to see .  Why give you not your hand ,  Dare you not trust the King with 't ? should he now  Shew a jades trick and flie back .  More respits yet ? Was ever hopeful match  Driven so round about ?  O , is that all ? that may be soon dispatch'd .  Come forwards Poysoner . Good your Majesty ,  For expedition , make me his judge ,  And hangman too ( I care not ) rather then  Suffer this match hang o' the tenters thus .  Yes , yes to me .  I beat it out of him . Quickly good King .  A hard matter that .  Hang him , hee 's a Barber ,  And uses Aqua fortis , oyl of Vitriol ,  Mercury , and such like , to cleanse his Rasors .  What 's that you mutter ?  The Taylor proves an honest man : because  He cannot have the wench himself , he 'll hang her .  O that whore . King . Find her and drag her hither .  You have heard the woful newes then ; but my sister  Could grief recal Philargus , we would weep  A second deluge for his reparation ;  Renew his breath by sighing , and awake him ,  With grones out of his Sepulchre .  What 's that ?  Or would you now , cause you have lost Philargus ,  Kill Philocles too by crossing of this contract ?  Of devils it is . What can she mean ? Go sleep .  What sayes old suckbottle now ?  O my brave brother !  Take up thy bottle — Sister , speak you on .  Here 's the She-Devil now .  How does he sleep ? speak impudent baggage , how ?  Your father ?  Come hither . come hither you three . I will discharge  The scene of you , Thy love unto thy Lord  ( Though somewhat unadvisedly imploy'd )  Deserves reward ; I le see it given thee ,  Thy Lord and King shall thank thee : take thy wench ,  She has love in her wit , and wit in her anger .  I like the luck of things ; that ill intents  Should bring forth good events . Thy faithfulness  To thy Lord too was happy . Go , I 'le I 'le see you  All royally rewarded . How now Geron ?  'Slife , stand not Whiloming now man : but be brief .  Hoy day !  Thy Rather 's worse then thy Whilom . Dost know  What time o'day 't is .  Go fetch the heads and heels , I 'le stay the King ,  To see and laugh at 'em . That 's grace enough .  I have it .  Contend not for the jewel , which  Ere long shall both of you inrich .  Pursue your fortune : for 't is she  Shall make ye what you seem to be .  Will your Majesty yet sit  And see the practise of a presentation ,  Against the Marriages by your Swains of Tempe  With thanks ; and give it all the grace we may ? 