 Now , by the way ,  Suppose that supposition had been true ,  And the supposed deaths of you , and you  Had mov'd your sons to combate in earnest ,  And both been kil'd indeed , as you in jest ,  Where had been then your witty subtilty ,  My noble Meanwell , and my brave Rashly ?  Ha! have I twight ye there ?  My humor was , nor is , nor must be lost :  But , to the question , was it wisely done ,  When each of you might so have lost a son ?  Nor yet , nor yet ;  Best wits may have bad memories ; I forget .  Master Winloss !  I thought I could as soon forgot my Chriss-Cross ,  Yet ( pardon me ) you have been six years gone ,  And all of them in prison saving one ,  In Dunkerk as I weene .  'T is a rare example .  I do remember ;  And , without ruine I 'le tell you , That sad cause ,  In which you join'd against him , overthrew him  And all his Family : But this worthy act  Of yours in his enlargement , crowns your piety ,  And puts him in a way of better Fortune ,  Then his first tottering estate could promise .  Not any Sir at all . But , Mr. Winloss ,  You that have past so many sorrows , can  ( I make no doubt ) here one with manly patience .  T is well and 't be no worse with her : I fear  She 's gone the tother way of all flesh , do you hear ?  To have him right  His daughters wrong upon that wicked beast  That has seduc'd her .  Even the Ranck-rider of the town , Sir , one  Master Nathaniel Banelasse , if you know him .  You may be proud on 't , if they scape his doctrine .  No , Sir , t is worse then so . He has cast her off  To the common , as t is fear'd .  Sir , I le tell you .  I have , i' th' house , a guest , was once your man ,  And serv'd your son , since you went ore I 'm sure on 't ,  Though now he has got a young spark to his Master ,  That has a brace of gueldings in my stable ;  And lusty ones they are . That 's by the way .  Sir , the young gallant is abroad , the man  Scults closs i' th' house here , and has done these two dayes  Spending his time with me in drink and talk .  Most of his talk runs upon wenches mainly ;  And who loves who , and who keeps home , and so forth ;  And he told me the tale that I tell you  Twixt Banelasse and your done and undone daughter .  I told you he was very shy to be seen . 