 THe clouds of Doubts and Fears are now dispers'd ,  And Joy , like the resplendent Sun , spreads forth  New life and spirit over all this Kingdom ,  That lately gasp'd with Sorrow .  The Queen comes on , Joy in that face appears  That lately was overwhelmed in her tears ,  At hand , my Soveraign .  That your delay  May seem less grievous , hear this by the way ,  A brief relation of the Kings success  In this his late well-won Battail .  That were to make his Conquest nothing worth :  It would make Victory upon his head ,  As she had flown into his Burgonet ,  To shrowd her from a storm , and not to sit  Or rather stand triumphant on a foot ,  With display'd wings upon the utmost Sprigg  Of his high flourishing Plume , vaunting her safety  So perch'd and so supported by his Valour .  Well said , young Prince , right of the Kings own Metal :  And gracious Madam , let me tell you , though  You do not love to hear of blood and danger ,  Y' have brought a Warrior forth , I do foresee 't :  I love to speak my thoughts , I hope you trust me ,  A right old Courtier I , still true to th' Crown .  Excellent Prince ,  I was i' th' way : but the Queen put me out on 't .  Then , humph , humh , humh , in my own way .  But by the way , no way to derogate  From the Kings matchless resolution .  A word or two of the best Soldier  In all the world ( under the King I mean ,  I know my limits ) that 's our brave General ,  Lord Sforza , Madam , your stout Country-man ,  Though our Kings Subject now ; that bore him so  At the great marriage-Triumph in Tourneament ,  Tumbling down Peers and Princes , that e'er since ,  He 's cal'd your Champion , and the Queens old Souldier .  Marry but this , That as we have a King ,  And as the King brings victory , nay life ,  Home to his Queen , his Country and our comforts ,  Next under Heaven we are to give the praise  To this old Souldier , to this man , the man  Indeed , another man is not to be  ( Except the King ) nam'd in this Victory .  Excuse me gracious Madam ,  I know my limits : what ? before the King ?  I am an old Courtier I , still true to th' Crown ,  But thus it is declar'd , that in the battail ,  When in the heat of fight the mingled bloods  Of either Army reek'd up to the Sun ,  Dimming its glorious light with gory vapour ,  When slaughter had rang'd round about the field ,  Searching how by advantage to lay hold upon out King .  At last she spied and circled him about  With Spears and swords so thickly pointed on him .  That nothing but his sacred valour could  Give light for a supply to his relief ,  Which shin'd so through and through his wals of foes ,  As a rich Diamond 'mongst an heap of Ruines ,  And so was found by the quick eye of Sforza ,  When like a Deitie arm'd with wrath and Thunder ,  He cut a path of horror through the Battail  Raining down blood about him as he flew ,  Like a prodigious Cloud of pitch and fire ,  Until he pierc'd into the straight , wherein  The Royal Person of our King was at  His last bare stake of one life to a thousand .  Then in a word , old Sforza fetcht him off ,  And with his sword which never touch'd in vain ,  Set him i' th' heart of 's Army once again .  That did your Champion , Madam ,  The Queens old Souldier , and your Father , Lady :  D' ye simple at it ? such a Souldier breaths not ,  Only the King except : now note the Miracle ,  The King receiv'd and gave new life at once  Of and unto his Army , which new life  Was straight way multipli'd , as if the lives  Of all the slain on both sides were transfus'd  In our remaining part , who with a present fury  Made on with that advantage on the Foe ,  That the whole field was won as at one blow .  I am prevented .  All was Loyal Dutie ,  As we are old Courtiers Sir , still true to th' Crown .  It befits true Statesmen  Watchful to be at home 'gainst civil harms ,  When Kings expose themselves to hostile Arms .  Pox on Petruccio .  Bless me , and be good to me : how thinks your  Grace of my Allegiance , and can ask  Me that Question ?  The Hangman take him . Petruccio King ?  Peugh , peugh ; I hate to name him .  How can you think your State had been secur'd  If he had breath'd amongst us ? That vile wretch ,  Whom in your Kingly wisdom you did banish  The Court for a most dangerous Male-content ,  After his just repulse from being your General ,  When he durst stand in Competition  VVith brave deserving Sforza here , the best  Most absolute Souldier of the world .  Except your Majesty .  He come at Court by my permission ?  I should as soon be won to set your Court  On fire , as see him here .   [ Starts ]  Your Majesty is pleas'd to have it so .  Nay since it is your Highness pleasure , and  So seriously commanded , I will send  My own head off my shoulders , but wee 'l have him :  In what you can command , I dare be Loyal .  It must be so , this is one of his un-to-be-examin'd hastie Humours , one of his starts : these and a devillish gift  He has in Venerie , are all his faults .  Well , I must go , and still be true to th' Crown .  My masters , come along , and close up to me : my Loyaltie defend me , I shall not dare to trust me in this devillish fellows reach else . And thus it is Sir .  Good friends look well to me .  Look every way .  I would thou wert in Hell for me :  No Sir , I come to call you to the King .  That 's for my Self . I know thou lovest not me .  Nor cannot , less the King could love thee .  Why if he does , I do , but 't is more then I know , or can collect yet by his Majesties affection .  I know my Loyalty , and I know the King has sent for you ; But to what end I know not : and if it be to hang thee I cannot help it . Look to me now my masters . Nor do I care , that 's the plain troth on 't , while the King is pleas'd , and thou wert my Brother . I am an old Courtier I , still true to the Crown .  Look to me for all that .  That 's because I would not be afraid : look to me still .  Yes , as much as I look for .  Yes , prethie keep afore with thy back towards me , and so long I dare trust thee .  Have an eye though .  Come , what I think , I think ; my love to you  Was the Kings love , if it were love at all :  If he will say , he ever lov'd you , I can say so too .  But to speak truth , I know not if I did ,  Or I did not ; but now you 're hateful to me ;  That I dare speak , because he hates you soundly .  And your old Russian Sforza , that fell Traytor ,  That would have kill'd the King : do you look up at it ?  You may look down with sorrow enough :  Your Country-man , your brave old Champion ,  He has Champion'd you sweetly it seems .  Is there no honest VVoman ?  VVomen are alwayes ignorant of Reproof :  I 'll tell you what it means , for that loves sake  You thought I lov'd you once . Or do you know  VVhat Mars and Venus meant , when injur'd Vulcan  Had e'm in 's Net ? Good King , how wert thou abus'd ?  And this good honest , faithful , loyal Lord ,  Full to the brim , of Merit , and true Valour ,  By that Blade-brandishing Sforza , that meer Fencer ,  To this great Martialist : but he is fast enough ,  And all 's come out , howe'er you 'l answer it .  Nor ever shall , for me .  Good Lodovico , peace .  In Adultery .  Speak lower , good my Lord .  For fear of whom ? of what ?  You would not that the King should hear you , would you ?  Faith then as sure as your tongue 's your own now , your whole head would be his then .  It will do the Queen as much good , as the money it might be sold for in the Market ; That and the Appurtenances to it , would yield little at the Shambles . Come my Lord , speak privately , and purposely keep your head on your shoulders : it becomes the place as well as 't had been made for it . If the King have a mind to turn away his Wife , I le give him leave to turn mine after her , to wait upon her , rather than to have my head bowl'd at her , though I were sure it should kisse the Mistress .  She is a Woman of middle earth yet . But what shall we dare to say two hours hence ? Come , think upon Law and Regal Authoritie . The Kings Power Warrants his Acts : I know as well as you the Queen Eulalia ( Heaven bless her , I hope 't is yet no Treason to pray for her ) is as vertuous a Lady as ever  beautified a Court , or made a Kings Bed happy , For all the Articles fram'd against her .  Of all that 's good , or should be wish'd in VVoman .  She consider'd she grows old : she reads in her Sons face nigh twenty years of the Kings love to her : and gives him leave to place it now elsewhere .  I will not say so .  My thoughts are warranted by the Proverb . But come , make up your Face , temper your voyce and looks with the rest of the most Honourable Assembly : shake off this discontent , 't is a disease by which you 'l perish else : now all the Court 's in height ; you to professe distaste ! Come , be a looker on at least .  Your stay , my Lord , may prevent danger .  Alinda's Death .  VVho 's there ?  I dare me thinks a little hear you now ,  ( The Court being surfeited too with wine and noise )  And could almost talk to the point it self ,  To your own ear .  'T is fit somewhat were done :  I cannot say what : but if the wronged Queen  Be not restor'd , we shew ingratitude ,  How much , I may not say : enough to damn us .  And though I will not speak it : if the Strumpet :  Be not conveniently and speedily destroy'd ,  Though death dance with us in the enterprize ,  We shall seem born more for our selves than Countrey .  Nay more , now I will speak .  That way , or any way ; If Poyson , Sword ,  Policy or Strength may do it —  What for him ? my Ladies Game-keeper , that understands nothing but Monkeyes , Parrots , short-nos'd Dogs and Starlings ; Master of her Majesties Foisting-hounds .  Let him ; he has no Soul to understand , nor Language to answer a Man : he knows how to dyet , disple and perfume the small Cattle he has charge of ; for which rare Art , and catching Spiders for principal Pug , he is rais'd prime man in his great Mistresses favour .  Swarm rather , for they are Bees in his head ; Oh! he engrosses all the Suits , and commends them to the White Hand , whose disposing will make the whole Kingdom black in Mourning , if Fate by us prevent not . See how he carries it ! We might talk what we would , for him . His well-ordered head is so taken up with Particular Affaires , he mindes no General talk .  But my good Lord , 'fore others Ears and Eyes ,  Pursue we our Design as all were Spies :  You and the Common Good have won me .  See , here are more of them : more of that hated womans Retinue : away with all .  As I am true to the Crown , not one of you pesters the Court a minute longer : go , you are trash and trumpery : and I le sweep the Court of all of ye : follow your Mistresse : go .  Yes yes , the Fool my Lord , shall stay .  Will not ? how dar'st thou say so ? ha , Fool , ha ?  See what he caries : I heard of Plate and Jewels lost to day .  Heyday , here 's stuff indeed !  The Court unclouded of this Factious crew ,  VVill shine on us that to the Crown are true .  None since he stole from Court upon the Banishment  Of that false wicked woman , whom I cannot  Name to your face or forehead , but I tremble .  My Loyalty forbid ,  And my infallible Truth unto the Crown ,  But I were sensible of the injury .  And mine .  And so did I ,  By my lov'd Loyalty , think my self safe  In his Advices —  Yes , he had ever a kind of a slie look .  VVill your Majesty believe me ? I would I might never rise  Into your Favour ( and that I would not say  For all the Traytors Lands in your Kingdom ,  VVhich were no small reward ) if that were not  Mine very own conceit of Lodovico  That Traytor ; hang him : what should I call him less ?  So 't was thought your Highness did .  Yes , when he 's hang'd he shall be King . How Horatio ?  Your Majesty knows my thoughts : nay I thank my creation , I was ever  Just of your Majesties mind from my Nativitie ,  And in that faith I le die .  My sweet yong Prince ?  I shall : but ere I go ,  Let me inform your Highness in my thoughts  Of the sweet Prince Gonzago : if ever King  VVas happy in a Son , you are in him .  Cherish him , good my Lord :  Hee 'l be a sure staff to you in your Age ,  And prove a Statesman quickly : I cannot think ,  Except in him and your undoubted Queen ,  Petruccio and my self , True Loyalty lives .  And here he comes : obedience in his Face  Most brightly shining .  Does your Grace think so ?  Then I know it too : Think , did you say ? I think 't was time to think it .  As I am true to th' Crown , just now I knew it too .  What can be said against it ? has not his Grace spoke it ?  What must be done with him to please your Majesty ?  Did not I tell your Majesty there was not ,  But in the Queen , Petruccio , and my self ,  True Loyaltie in the Court ? Away you Traytorling .  What ? in being true to th' Crown ? O my Loyaltie !  O my dread liege ?  O the sweet Queen ! I fear , I fear , I fear .  I fear she has a Moonflaw in her brains :  She chides and fights that none can look upon her .  Her Fathers Ghost , in her I think : here she comes .  As I am true to the Crown , I know not what to say to this : she 's falling mad sure .  His ' tother wife would not have us'd him thus .  Quiet Cuckoldrie is better then scolding chastitie all the world over .  And she the Spider in 't I fear .  My Loyaltie knowes not how to look upon her .  She 's mad beyond all cure .  Here 's a fine woman spoil'd now , by humoring her at first , and cherishing her Pride .  Take this , take all .  How fares your Majesty ?  I would my wife were with her then :  And so would any good Subject say ; I think .  Marry I think ( and so would any good Subject think , I think ) as your Majestie thinks .  Truly I think there 's now not any warrantable Loyaltie left but in Petruccio and my self .  The Queen is now out of my Catalogue , and my Creed too .  My Loyaltie defend me ! I know not what to make on 't .  'T is so , 't is so : ne'er ask him for the matter :  I thought so , just , just as your Majestie thought it ;  And find withall , that now you have not left  A Loyal heart but in Horatio's bosome ,  Now that Petruccio fails : I fear'd 't would come  To that : nay knew 't : O hang him , hang him ,  False hearted villain ! he was never right ,  And so I always told your Majesty .  I hope you 'll be advis'd , though , how you run  Into this wild-fire of Rebellion .  No Sir , nor I :  By all meanes fetch him off : that Loyal General  Is tenfold worth the whole Rebellious Army :  Save him , and hang them all .  Enters . O my dread Lord !  O my sweet Soveraign !  No Sir : The Queen , the Queen , the Queen 's distracted ,  And I am like to be , and you , and any man  That loves the King , unless some Conjurer  Be found to lay the Devil : I mean Sforza .  Sforza Sir ( would you think ? ) that monstruous Traytor  Sforza walks in the Court without a Head ;  Appear'd unto the Queen : I found her talking with him ,  Kneeling and praying him to give her Pardon ;  Told him indeed 't was she that sought his Head ,  And that she thought , that being now a Queen ,  She might by her Prerogative take Heads ,  Whose and as many as she listed : but  She promis'd she would send it him again ,  Or else Petruccio's first : or if he would forgive her  This time , shee 'ld do so no more .  He seem'd he would not hear her : then she beat  Her self against the walls and floor , and flies  To free her self by th' windows : calls for Poison ,  Knife , Rope , or any thing , whereby to follow  Her most abused Father . What to make on 't ,  As I am true to th' Crown , I must refer  Onely unto your Majestie .  Not I : I saw him not : nor has the Devil  Power in a Traytors shadow to appear  Unto a Loyal Subject . Hah ! my Loyaltie  And Truth unto the Crown defend me !  See the very foresaid Devil at my Elbowe ,  Head and all now : avoid , attempt me not Satan ,  I do conjure thee by all the vertues of a Loyal Courtier .  I defie thee Bubsebel .  Look there , the Apparition , there it is ;  As like the Traytor Sforza when he liv'd ,  As Devil can be like a Devil — oh !  Does the King say so ?  I , if thou beest flesh and blood : but how to believe that I know not , when my touch makes me sweat out a whole showre of pure Loyaltie .  Who ever thought otherwise ? or how  Could he in nature appear less then Loyal ?  O my right noble Lord , I weep thy welcome .  Yes , and how equally I affect them both .  Mad , mad , most irrecoverably mad .  They are not to be found .  Let me out-squeeze that Court-Sponge .  If I do not fetch out the poisonous corruption  Of all this Practice , let me yet be guiltie .  VVho made doubt on 't ?  I le undertake to find more Toads in Ireland ,  Then Rebels in Palermo , were the Queen  ( Queen did I call her ? ) that disloyal woman  And that slie Traytor Lodovico out on 't .  Ah , ah ! does not your grace come to me now ?  I thought I would put your Highness to 't for once ,  To try what you would say : when Lodovico  Does not prove trustie , then let me be truss'd .  This I foresaw would prove an hour of comfort .  The Stars themselves ne'er saw events more plainly .  Let her alone , her Raign 's but short we know .  Is this the sound of want and misery ?  Let her jeer on . )  No Divination against her own good , I hope .  If ever you held your peace , peace now .  I hope you will not .  Will you ?  Will you , will you ?  Will you ? will you ?  We ? you hear not me say any thing ; do you ?  That 's well .  Nor fact intended was there , of death or danger ?  Lord , Lord ,  Lord mumb .  You do not hear me say so .  I am as sad as he , and should be dead ,  If he were dead : and therefore no fit member  To make Him merry , I : try your vein with him ,  Tell him your Daughters dying ; that may cheer him .  I thank your Majestie , that sweet smile reviv'd me ,  not I , I 'm sure did you : or you ?  There could be no such thing : who dares be merry , when the King 's sad ?  O my sweet Queen ! but I am thunder struck   His Highness thanks you : and hath here dispos'd  An hundred Duccats in this Purse inclos'd ;  Drink it amongst ye to the Kings well faring ,  And see there be no falling out i th' sharing  So make your Exit .  I would the Devil  had , 'm that thought ill of her .  See the most Princely vertue that survives .  And long live my sweet Prince .  No , hang her , hang her . This , this is the Queen .  A very Queen of harts : a better Title  Crowns not the best of women in our days .  Love him ? my Loyaltie preserv'd ,  I shall not desire the Princes love my self  If he not giv 't to faithful Lodovico ,  My true yoak fellow in State and Commonwealth .  There is a Loyaltie after my own heart now .  Here a new Song , Eulalia unvailes Alinda .  Who makes a doubt of that ? 