 You shew you love Rafe .  And you the first that e're I knew besotted  Into a wilful confidence , which renders  Me to a vile construction ; and your selfe  By leaving me to all assaults and hazards  Have got the reputation of a Wittal .  Or one that seems contented to become so .  I not desire you should , but only that  You will not seem so carelesse of my credit ,  Exposing me to all temptations  Of the wilde Gallantry of the wanton time .  By whom ( although my chastity remaines  Untouch't ) my name and your discretion suffers .  Still you flie from the point , I would not have  You vex your self with causelesse jealousie  Over my constant love ; but only seem  A little watchful o're my reputation .  Whereby you may decline mens leud attempts .  And not to throw me upon opportunities  To draw them on ; as if I were a thing  S●t out , as in your shop , for common sale .  Pray stay a little . This letter 's from my father .  Yes , very well , pray read his Letter here .  Here 's nothing but what I would have you see .  There 's for your postage , friend . It needs no answer .  But if you will not stay to reade this Letter .  You shall not deny me one thing .  Here , take this pen : write here a word or sentence .  What you please . But keep it well in minde ,  And look that you be sure to know 't agen  When I shall shew 't you .  Well Rafe , remember that you won't be jealous .  And farewel Coxscombe , some wife would say now .  I am much troubled at his sillinesse .  And would to right me , straine a womans wit ,  Knew I with modesty how to answer it .  Something I 'le do .  VVhat lack ye , Gentlemen ; faire cut-work bands , boot-hoose , or boot-hoose tops , shirts , wast-coats , night-caps , what will you buy ?  Not on these termes .  Give me leave  A little , first to wonder at your rashnesse ,  To talk so openly before a stranger .  What 's that to my unblemish't reputation ?  'T is not your life can salve that , being wounded .  But thus it is , when women out of goodnesse  Hazard their fortunes to relieve the wants  Of such as you , that carry no respect ,  But to your own licentious Appetites .  And think no favour's sweet , unlesse you may  Have priviledge to boast 'hem to our shame .  Pray , boast no more  Then you have found , and much good may they do you .  'T is not poor thirty pieces can undo me .  There 's your presumption .  A woman were a wise one that would trust  Her selfe in such wilde hands as yours ; to have  Her name made Tavern-talk among your blade ,  And thrust i' th' list of your loose-hilted Mystresses :  Well sir , upon your faithful protestation ,  And vow of secresie , here 's ten pieces more .  You have found a tender-hearted woman of me  Over your wants ; and all the satisfaction  That I desire , is , that I may not suffer  Under a lavish tongue ; 't is easie payment .  Your friend stayes for you , sir .  You slight him now , but he knows all your Councels .  Go to , avoid suspition then , besides  I have occasions that do call me hence .  But Rafe you care not  What people say , so I bring you in profit .  Some do not stick to say , I know what 's what ,  And that our house is no better then it should be .  But I know what I know , and that our house is  Better then it should be , if some of them  Had but the keeping of it , that speak so ill on 't .  And that the Gentlewomen in our house  Are well-condition'd , and as chaste as courteous .  And if you saw , ( as they desire I should  See all betwixt their great Resorts and them )  You 'd be in love with their sweet way of living .  Then for their dancing , 't is so neat and graceful .  See 'hem anon at practice .  Close in their chamber , sir .  Not any , sir .  Yes , sir .  Newes out of France , your fame is spread abroad .  Two young French Gentlemen .  New come ashore , the daintiest sweetest Gentlemen  That e're I saw ( now you 'll be jealous Rafe )  Are come to lodge here , having heard  It seems , that you professe French qualities .  And instantly desire to be acquainted  With you and your sweet company .  One very well : and the tother can say  Tree Fransh crown for two English kisse already ,  Now be jealous Rafe .  Will you not see the Gallants Rafe ?  Here they are come .  He seems a little waggish : but the other  Is wondrous civil . He comes blushingly .  Gentlemen , your dinner stays meat will be cold .  Ha , ha , ha , what will this world come to ?  The old will to 't .  As well as the young I see .  To fashion following ;  A Reverend Lady  Of fifty five ; and a Knight of threescore  And upwards , are come hither to learn fashion .  Yes , yes : and them ; 't is that  Begets my wonder .  'T is the Lady Nestlecock , and one Sir Swithin VVhimlby .  The Ladies man 's without : who came to know if the house were ready to entertain 'hem ; do you know 'em Mr. Lightfoot ?  Yes , overjoy'd with the good sport he has had .  He 'll play th' good fellow then . Entreat him Cash .  To help thee , put a cup or two upon  That fellow ; and hear'st me , spice his cup ,  I mean , grave Ephraims cup with this same powder ,  'T will lay him asleep , and quickly .  That I shall sir .  Sir , your collation stayes .  At several times , you have had fifty pounds of my poor husbands money .  Do you grow wilde ? speak lower , do you mean to undo me ?  Will no lesse serve your turn then fifty ?  O me , undone .  I feare he 's mad  Or jealous , which is worse .  You are deceiv'd .  Hear me first .  Time was you would not ha' denied me that .  But now y' are jealous .  Here 's tother fifty pieces , take 'hem sir .  They are full weight , and truly told .  If you will law , sir , you shall law for something .  That money sir  May serve to countenance you among the Gamesters  Within , that blew you up . The Lady widow  May think the better of your credit too ,  Being so good i' th' house .  Stay , you shall promise me before my husband ,  That you will never more attempt my chastity .  You shall protest  Then , fairly , as you are a Gentleman  You never have enjoy'd me .  What a bold thief is this ! Pray heare me , sir .  You may remember that I ask't you once  What Countreyman you were .  And you  Call Captain Hardyman , their father-in-law .  You wrong him basely . Look you , Can you reade .  It seems a Sister of yours had it .  Ha' you a sister ?  I am that sister , brother , but no whore .  You have your hundred pound sir . Look you , husband .  This is my fathers letter which you wrote on .  That which you dar'd the devil and Clerks to counterfeit , reade your own hand .  No sir , nor would I that you should ,  Till I had foil'd you in your course ,  And had my will to make my husband jealous .  I 'le seat you to see all , and be unseen .  Thank a good sister , sir . 