 Go home Ephraim .  And have a care you suffer not my boy  To Straggle forth 'mong his unhappy play-mates ,  For fear of mischief .  What do you lock up my brother , ha ? —  Not's own Sister , ha ? —  Is he here , ha ? That Strygood ? Is he here ?  Hang him old reprobate . And beshrew thy heart ,  For a young varlet , to call him our brother .  It is no marvel , if my brother Matchil  Lock up himself , and such a wickednesse  Be in his house , as is that Strygood , ha —  Let him take heed , he comes not in my Nayl reach ,  And call me Sister , or my Brother , brother ,  Like a debaush'd old Villain , as he is .  O that my husband Nestlecock were alive ,  But for three minutes , to send him to  Newgate , if he presume to call me Sister  But I command you in my husbands name ,  Who was a Justice , when he liv'd , to thrust him  Out of your Masters doors , my brothers house .  Lest I be sick with the loath'd sight of him .  You will not disobey this , will you , ha ? —  If not , why stir you not ? ha . —  Will you not send him packing , ha ? —  I thank you courteous friend . In truth , last night ,  One of my Coach-gueldings fell lame , and I ,  By that constrain'd to come afoot ,  Was forc'd to leave my boy at home ; or else  He had come with me , to have been a comfort  To his sad Uncle : But I would not now  For twice my Gueldings price , my childe were here ;  And that foule fiend i' th' house , whose very looks  Would fright him into sicknesse .  I can't so soon forget the fright he took  At seeing the roguish Jugler once eat tow ,  And blow it out of 's mouth in fire and smoke ,  He lay a fourtnight by 't .  Alack a childe ; but going in 's nineteenth year .  Where 's my Neece Joyce ?  I 'll stay with them till I may see my brother .  What 's the matter ? ha —  To comfort you , dear brother , if you 'll heare me .  Your sonne is dead , they say ; and here I finde  Your daughter is rebellious 'gainst ; our will .  But is it so Joyce ? ha ! — I thought you , Joyce ,  Would have rejoyc'd your father in obedience , Joyce ;  And not afflict him with your stubbornnesse .  But my brother ,  Let me advise you , rather then suffer her  To be an eye-sore to you , put her out ,  Where she may learne more duty . If you please  I 'll take her home , and shew her how it should be   I , there 's a childe ! Brother , you 'l pardon me ,  If I aspire in hope , that he shall be  Your heire , if Joyce miscarry in rebellion .  Ha —  And did I come to bring thee consolation ?  Now let me tell thee , I rejoyce in thy  Just punishment , thy scourge of crosses . Thou ,  That for these six years space , until this day ,  Hast kept continual feast and jollitie  For thy wives death , who was too good for thee .  A further punishment , I prophecie  Grows in the neck of thy leud insolence   I 'm sick at sight of the leud Reprobate .  Call not thy self our brother . He appears  Unkinde to me , but thou insufferable ,  I loath to look upon thee .  Hear him not .  I am not angry with you now ; and therefore  I charge you , hear him not .  How 's that ? ha !  Now brother you may hear him .  Why d ee not hear him , brother ? —  Trulie , I thank you . Now I 'll call you brother .  Y' are a good natur'd Gentleman if you had it .  Come home , and see my sonne . — VVill you not hear him ? ha   Look you how wilde he looks .  I would he had a wife then ,  For nothing else can tame him .  Alas , poor hearts . Just so loth  To part was I and my sonne Nehemiah  Today when I came forth .  Will you so ? ha !  You are not , are you ? ha   Any way , brother Strigood , Hang him , Nabal ,  To warn me out o's house ; and not alone ,  To turne a stranger from within his gates ,  But offer to cast out his childe too , ha !  Neece , you shall no way disobey your father  In being rul'd by me .  You and your second selfe shall home with me  Until his furious humour be blown over .  To which the first meanes is to shun his sight ,  And then let me alone to make your peace .  So let us slip .  Home to my house together .  Hist brother , lead the way .  No newes , no tidings of 'em , Ephraim , ha !  Was even sucg a scape ?  O hang him Villain .  What to do , ha ?  I know he is of none .  How shall I answer now my brother Matchil ?  But he is justly serv'd to marry so .  The thought of it torments me . Where 's my comfort ?  Where 's Nehemiah , ha ?  What , at his book ? or at his musick , ha ?  I thank you for 'hem ,  My careful discreet Ephraim . I like  His harmlesse exercises well .  And you speak but reason Ephraim .  Go call him in .  I would not have him over heat himself .  You would have him  Do worse then , would you ? and be nought , you varlet ?  What! would you have him play at Mans-game , ha ?  Fore he be married , ha ! what , what ! how now !  Is it but up and ride w' ye , ha !  Go , th' art an honest man . I know thou lov'st him .  Indeed he 's all my comfort and my care  And I must naturally respect all those  That do partake with me my care of him .  That 's my good Lamb . Hold up thy head ; and thou .  Shalt have a wife .  At any thing , my boy .  But when y' are married , you 'll finde other pastime .  I know thy will is good to leave thy wag-tricks .  And I commend your understanding in it .  It shewes you man , and ready for a wife .  Where was thy tother .  Well th' art too witty to live long , I feare .  But as I was saying , sonne , I do expect  Sir Swithen Whimtby to bring his Neece .  Odes childe and Elegies . He has been inspir'd .  With the infection of Poetry ,  E're since his wives departure : and 't is thought  Nothing can put him out , or cure him of it  But a new wife to kill the furious itch of 't ,  O witty , witry , still .  But when she comes Nehemiah , what 'll you say to her ?  You will not , will you , ha ?  Too witty still , I say , to be long-liv'd .  This is no crafty childe .  O th' art a witty wag . A blessing on it .  They are very welcome ,  Noble Sir Swithen .  Sweet Knight , y' are welcome .  Still weeping .  Laugh with her then .  Do you note , Sir Swithin , what a wag it is .  Walk into the next room Nehemiah . Did you note him ?  O sweet Sir Swithen , you have all woo'd and won me .  My sonne shall have your Neece , and for mine own part .  You loving him so well , of what 's in me .  I can deny you nothing .  Nay , Sir Swithen .  Let me entreat you to leave weeping now .  Alas , good Knight . He weeps pure Helicon .  He has not wherewithal to quench his love ,  But his own teares . A wife would cool him better .  Why sir , does sight of me renew your grief ?  Good sir , collect your self , and be assur'd  I am your own , so Neh. may have your Neece ,  With her full Dowry of foure thousand pounds .  My personal estate is full as much .  That and my self are yours on the crosse marriage ,  You making me an answerable Joincture .  Dry now your eyes , and answer me in prose ,  Are you content to yield to those conditions  I have propounded , ha !  I hope the young ones do accord as well .  I do not like it . What 's the matter Nehemiah ?  Blesse my boy ; she has not , has she , ha !  There , do you note him there , Sir Swithen ?  This childe has no childish meaning in 't , I warrant you .  She will , I know she will .  Will you not have my son , sweet Mrs. Blith ?  Can she talk thus ? ha !  I much desire she would ; for now my sonne  Is set a marrying , I warrant it pure thing  It is in paine , till it be at it : ha !  Pray bring her on , Sir Swithen , let him kisse her .  Poor heart , he licks his lips ; and look how arseward she is .  Gip , Mrs. Tripshort . Is this the manners your Mother left you ?  Sir Sw●then , will you see my childe abus'd so , ha ?  I , well-said Neh.   How dare you Huswife talk thus to my son , of me , and before my face too ? ha ! Sir Swithen , can you think well of me , and suffer this , ha ?  Do you bring your Neece to abuse me ?  Sayest so , my boy . Besides , I have a conceit she can out-scold you , and that 's more then ever woman did , I think f'sooth .  For thee , I do forbear her .  Though unworthy to be of your Counsel , or at the Ceremony , I heard you were married brother . And by a Sisters name you are welcome .  Now for a tempest . Truly sir , I know not .  No truly , sir .  She 's slipt from me with her good Uncle Strigood .  VVhat , what ? how now ? do you taunt me , sirrah , ha ?  Thou hast made thy self an example , and the scorne of thine own childe in marrying of thy drudge there ; and that 's the cause of her running away thou mayest think , because she hates to live where she must call her mother that was thy droile .  By and by , my boy .  Thou shalt not dare to call me sister Huswife .  I know not what to say to the bold-face .  Thanks , my good childe , but do not be afraid my Lamb .  I know not what to say to her , she has charm'd the vertue of my tongue .  Your wife has taught you to play the rude companion , has she ? Pray take her home sir , and let her discipline your owne childe if you have one , and let mine alone . You know the way you came , sir ; or if you have a minde to stay here , Come Sir Swithen , come away children ; I hope I shall finde some other room in mine own house , free from your assaults , if not , I 'm sure there 's Law against Riots . Come Sir Swithen .  O prophane wretch , worse then thy brother Strigood .  Do not cry , Nehemiah , peace , good boy , peace . So so .  VVell-said Rachel , hold thine own Rachel .  Nay , what ha' you made your self ? best ask the Chimney piece that you have married there .  What a bold piece of Kitchin-stuffe is this ?  Brother y'  are match't .  He has not a word to speak .  Was ever combe so cut .  Again , you are welcom , Sir , Mrs. Blith  Now the unwelcome guests are gone , le ts in  And dine , then will we after meat   Right sir .  Within . Negh . Negh .  Where are you childe ? Neh.   Look you sonne , what kinde Sir Swithin has sent you . A dancing frog , you would think it were alive , and a ballet of burning the false prophets before they be tried . And another fearful one of the new Antichrist .  A sudden change , I pray it be good .  Blesse my sonne from too much learning . That book has done him no good , I doubt . He talks and looks so wildly o' the sudden .  What book is 't . Let me see it .  Is this your book-learning ? In troth thou mak'st me laugh .  What , what ! How now .  How durst you sirrah , move my sonne in this ? ha .  Is it but so ? ha !  But you shall not , Sirrah . What , what ! how now ! Is 't but up and ride ? ha ! Out of my doors thou varlet .  Good Neh. be pacified , I 'le give him a better answer .  But not a word on 't now , sweet childe , I pray thee .  Here comes Sir Swithin .  I marry Sir Swithin . This is better then O Madam , O — , when you wash't your handkerchiefs in the suds , and then to wring hem out in Poetry .  I say so too , sonne , Sweet boy , be content .  Marry Gip , Mrs Queasie , my sonne 's as sweet as you , I hope , and as wise as you . And suck't as sweet milk as ever the good Cow your mother gave .  Uds so ! do you flirt out your unsavoury comparisons upon my sonne ?  You wo' not will you , ha ! Do you flie at him , ha !  Ephraim , save my boy .  I ever fear'd he was not long-liv'd he was so witty . And now I feare , she will be the death of him . I would not he should marry her for a million .  O me ! he is bewitch't to her .  As I am to you , I think , Sir Swithin .  Behinde his back ? did she so ?  Well , Heaven blesse thee , thou art but too good for her .  Ha! say you so ?  Nay then , I thank you Mrs. Blithe . Assuring you that you shall be no way so good to him , but I will be as good to you .  Yes Sir Swithin ; and that the French tongue is taught there with great alacrity ; and my sonne is wish't thither , but soft I warrant you .  Pardon me good sir Swithin .  Say you so sonne ? then come sir Swithin . Come Mrs. Blithe , we will all go .  I muse we lost my man thus .  But I 'd be glad to see first by your leave ,  Some probability of what they shall learn .  Peace childe . Hear more on 't .  Do Neh. speak to her .  That was well-said . Why are they mask'd , I pray sir ?  You have well satisfied me .  He 's a weak scholar forsooth , and would be glad to learn .  What a wag it is ?  What , what ! how now , ha ? you are a Flapse to terme my sonne so , ha !  I 'le put her by her school-tricks and no only unmask , but unskin her face too , and she come over my heire apparent with such Billingsgate Complements .  Say you so ?  Nay , I am satisfied , and pray , that my rash errour may prove pardonable Lady   But do you reade and teach all these to your scholars ?  Why are we interrupted ? pray proceed .  No matter , sonne , we 'll take no notice of her .  I wonder at the boldnesse of the drudge though .  Do you bring your rude companions to affront me ? Are you so hot ? you stir up your cinders before they be cak't .  Will you see me abus'd  Sir Swithin , look to your Neece , the t'other talks to her .  He 's apt to learn , sir , I can tell you that .  However sir , I can but thank your love in 't .  They told me I was like him , when I was younger .  And let me tell you y'  are a comely Gentleman .  And be you but as honest as y'  are handsom , you deserve well .  Were I free from the old Knight , I could look well upon him .  Ha , ha , ha .  Say you so ?  Sir , I hope .  I am not yet so tied , but I may safelie  Use my own freedom , I 'le go when I please .  What does he call you ? Rascal ?  INhospitable ! 't is inhumane , past  The cruelty of infidels .  Abominable hypocrite .  Thou hast thy sonne , give me my sonne and daughter .  And mine own with him .  But to what comfort , having lost my daughter .  I feare you are destraught .  I know not him . How should he know my son .  Is my daughter with her ?  Good sir , le ts hasten thither .  Pray haste sir , to discovery : I would faine  Once see my daughter .  Sister , Indeed I am too much your trouble .  Indeed , indeed you wrong your self , I am yours .  Indeed you may not .  If I may not be  Accepted for your houshold servant , let me  Become your Chare-woman , in any office  From Cupboard to ( lose-stool , I can do all  To do your Ladiship service .  Y'  are too obsequious  Good gentle Sister .  O you shall pardon me .  Your courtesie o'recomes me .  Where 's her wise Uncle should ha' look't to her .  Thou shalt not have her boy , she 's naught .  Nor will , I feare not .  My sonne defies her ,  As I do you , old whining wither'd fellow ,  That has no moisture in him but for teares .  I rather think he playes the cunning hypocrite  With his false teares , and packt her hence himself   My brother , who her husband ?  Jun. And she is mine .  This is your sonne . And this  Is mine .  Jun. Mon Pere Je desire vestre Benediction Jour pour moy & ma femme .  You are lost children all , was ever thread  By fate so crossely spun , so crossely wed ?  Jun. What is dat Incest ,  We have commit noting , we have no time ,  Since we were marry for so much as kisse ,  Begar no point so much as but one kisse .  Jun. Sir I tanck you .  You 'ave speak very well . And we shall make .  De exshange presently . A new exchange ,  De new Exshange indeed , for de husbands  To shange the wifes before they can be wearie .  Prenez mon frere , la voici la ' une pour lautre .  Dere , is one for anoder :  Wee wee , I ensuis tresbien contult .  VVithout  All manner of condition I consent . 