 Now the Court  Puts on her rich Attire , and like fresh Flora ,  After the blasts of winter , spreads her Mantle ,  Deck'd with delightful Colours , to receive  The jocund Spring , that brings her this new life .  Petruccio sent for ! who for braving of  Brave Sforza here , so lately was confin'd .  I know not what to think .  Be comforted good Queen , and I beseech  Your Grace to pardon me in this command  The King has laid upon me .  VVas ever Vertue more abus'd then hers ?  Yes , and Petruccio his Adversarie  Governs his Place , and high in the Kings Favour .  Alas good Queen !  Good Queen , I fear so too ;  And that all ill proceeds from her to you .  Two such wives more might save a Nation .  But see Petruccio the now-powerful man , under the King .  None greater since the King was pleas'd to grace Petruccio .  Good Queen , thy wrongs are manifest , though none  Must dare to utter them , but in our Mone .  A new distinction  Between Spiritual and Temporal .  Royal Hypocrisie !  You have given her the Bed-right that belong'd to your wrong'd Queen , these twelve months .  To work for her living ? if she were as young , and no honester then she for vvhose sake this is inflicted on her , she might find something else about her , then naked hands , to help at a living shift -  We must .  VVe do ; Heaven knows against my heart .  O poor Woman !  Upon my life , his Marriage with that Start-up ,  That Snake this good Queen cocker'd in her Bosom ,  Is not this Royal cruelty ?  Faith thou hadst not mine , good woman :  I must not call thee Queen now .  Alas , how can she live one night ?  I mean Eulalia  It is oppression , Tyrannie indeed .  Faith if he did . —  If it might so excuse the Queen , I car'd not .  Oh but the ensuing danger , my Horatio ! The mischiefes that of necessary course must follow , even to the ruine of the State , by the Kings dotage on his second choice , draws blood from Subject hearts : Oh that lewd Woman !  The perfect Pattern of Meekness , Patience , Obedience .  So obsequious a lover of her Husband , that she gave way unto his loose affections , even to this now-she-start-up that supplants her .  And is so far from limiting his Choice ,  That she possesses it that seeks her blood .  My soul tels me the witnesses against  The Queen , are by this Concubine suborn'd .  You cannot chuse but think so .  Upon a Court on Fire ? O Horatio ,  Bright Burning Troy gave not a dearer cause  Of willingness to those affrighted souls  She forc'd to leave her sinking in her ashes ,  To flie for refuge to another Region ;  Nor in their flight could they by looks reverted ,  See danger in more horrible aspect ,  Than I upon the ruines of this Kingdom .  Yes , if it could remove the Fatal cause ,  The pride , the crueltie , the Ambition  Of that wild Fury , the outragious Queen ,  VVho treads and tramples down the Government .  Consider this Horatio , and the means  To work this great effect : and I am yours ,  To stay till it be done .  Is it not necessary ? no body : what d' ye fear ?  Or can you find how to preserve the State  At a less rate ? you know too well the King ,  How apt his Nature is to fell oppression .  The burden of whose crueltie long since ,  If by the vertuous Clemencie of his Wife  It had not been alay'd and mitigated ,  Had been a general subversion .  And now that Peerless Princesse being depos'd ,  Whose vertue made her famous , and us happy ;  And he re-married to this shame of women ,  Whose vileness breeds her envie and our mischief ,  What can we look for but destruction ?  I , now you speak .  Brave noble resolution !  This way , good Horatio .  Speak lower , good Horatio : see the Mignion .  So , he hears you .  How the Petitioners flock to him !  O I embrace you .  Farewel , thou foolish Pomp , and Pride of Court ,  Whose shine is but an Ignis fatuus  That leads fond Mortals from the path of Vertue ,  And Tracts of real Comforts : thus I shake  Thy wanton Dust from off my Feet , to tread  The wayes of Truth and Innocence : this Air  Breaths Health upon me , Peace , and perfect Pleasure .  VVhere the swoln Courts sophisticated Breath  Did but disease my Blood , and taint my Senses .  To this way  The most unfortunate Queen enclin'd her course :  And see , already , how her VVants and VVoes  Have worne her to the bone : Alas , she 's pin'd !  Hold thee , good Woman , pray thee take it quickly .  I came now from a Feast where we had plenty ,  And brought these Dainties , meant unto another ;  But my dear Charity tells me thou dost want it .  I pray thee eat it ; do not look , but eat it .  By all the truth and honesty in Man ,  'T is wholesome Food : see , I will be thy Taster ,  Though in good sooth , it grievs mee to beguile thee  Of the least Morsel : sure thou hast need of 't .  Good VVoman eat , and let not Famine be  Fearful of Poyson , or false Treacherie .  'Las , we are plain poor Country Folke , and hear no such news .  VVe heard indeed the King had put away his old good VVife , and tane a new one : but can we think you are she that was the Queen ?  O dearest Heaven ! do you think we 'ld injure you ,  That venture lives for you ? no , gentle Queen .  No body hears nor sees ; pray eat a little .  Stay , now perhaps she 'l eat .  None could e'er get a living amongst 'um in all their Practise .  It seems they liv'd then civilly and temperately .  Then sure their Wealth was all communicable .  There could not but be excellent Neighbour-hood .  Y' are not desperate ?  T is better that the world should judge so , and perish  For it in it's Ignorance , then you so wilfully  Be cast away : you hear that none escape .  What , the Queen Eulalia's life ?  Dare you stay longer here ? pray let us flie .  I know not what to think , but that I will not .  I , mark ye that : and that your false surmise  Against the Queen has brought this evil on you .  'T is plain , your fowl mistrust is the infection that rages in you .  Miraculous !  O happy woman , now no more a Queen ,  But Holy Saint : I see how Providence  Means to advance thy injur'd innocence .  I le dwell here now my self , and without fear :  For perfect health I think dwells only where  Good Eulalia remains : I have enough  To buy a Farm for me and poor Andrea .  But what 's become of him ?  And that was honest love .  If there be Heaven on earth , it is this woman .  These look like mischievous Robbers .  Your Life , I fear .  Their looks are murderous .  O my unhappy Fears !  Heaven has sent us ayd .  You Sir , have reason ; you have found her Life  The King has pardon'd : and although her Doom  In this her Banishment were heavy , and  A punishment even unto Death , but that  Good soul she works and labours for her food ,  You find not yet 't is lawful any kill her .  It is confess'd Sir , I am Lodovico ,  Somtimes a Lord of Court when this was Queen .  VVe dare not call her Queen now : but while we  Relieve her not , though we associate her ,  VVe are the Kings true Subjects : and with your leave ,  Disclaiming of all Honourable Titles ,  VVe 'll live amongst ye .  VVere you that man ?  But now you must reveal  By whom you have been wrought to these fowl Practices .  Good neighbours , Lollio , Poggio , and Andrea , conduct them to my House .  You shall do well : I thank your Charity .  When we have tane these mens confessions ,  I le write at large each passage to the King ,  Against the good Eulalia's will or knowledge   Thanks my good Pedro : but remember Silence .  So deep in thought good Madam ?  Depart good neighbours , good people all depart : shee 'l come abroad again to morrow .  Within Heaven bless our Holy woman .  I never liv'd till now .  Whither do you press ? who would you speak withall ?  Who are you ? or from whence ?  His hand is wither'd , and lets fall a Knife .  O Divels !  These are the other two that damn'd themselves  In perjurie against you at your Tryal .  O happie , happie Saint !  FEar not good Madam , trust my care and Reason .  To end all doubts , see Pedro is return'd .  Welcome my sweet young Prince .  Now I see methinks a Court again .  'T is happy Heavenly news .  Madam , the Sun shines fairly .  Three Boons , as the custom is .  More scorn upon my life , and rude vexation .  If she have further purpose then to raise  More sorrow by the Kings displeasure to her .  Mark the Camelion .  Too much , to tread upon Affliction .  I say Sir , the distresses of that Lady merit a  Kings Pity , and not such scorn  As I see cast upon her : but the best are women .  Goodness speaks in her .  As all Arts are , by the Rewards they find .  Did ever Daughter of a King thus suffer ?  Or has she Pride to smile on Injuries ?  Treason , and a Letter ?  We have never a false Brother amongst us , have we ?  No enemy but she ? to let her know she lies ,  Even unto Prophanation against that Lady ,  I le speak .  The King shall see his error .  She her crueltie .  The world Eulalia's Pietie .  Most mighty Sir , we here confess and say .  That Letter was not ours .  Nor any day or place as yet set down  Among our selves , for fact against the Queen .  I mean Alinda .  'T was wish'd at least by us .  King she 's the General grudge of all thy Kingdom .  Dare they do this ?  If you can answer 't to the King , 't is well ;  His Majesty is here at hand .  Now look you about you : cast your Coats , and instantly  Hast to the Curat , hee 's preparing sports ,  In speech and Dance , to entertain the King :  Go and assist him : that must be the way  To gain your Pardons .  Here 's goodness now .  Sforza and he are bringing the entrauns'd Alinda  ( Your fair Queen to your presence . )  THrough much distress , and many perilous wayes  Our Queen at last with more then conquering Bays  Is Crown'd with hearts : but now she fals again ,  And we , except her glory you maintain .  Our good depends on you then , thus it stands ;  She chears our Hearts , if she but gain your Hands . 