 Nat , we have sought diligently , for fear  The news that is abroad should flie before us .  Ten times worse then that too .  He has married a young wife .  One much too good for him .  Pray stay a little .  We came to cast a plot w' ye .  That had been a fine first course  At a wedding feast indeed . A little patience .  The case is ours . His wrongs are common to us ,  So shall his wife be , can we purchase her :  Did we bring you the news for you to run  And prevent us do you think ?  He 's very sowre and sad . 'T is crept upon him  By this untoward accident .  Hold , Sir , forbear .  So we say all .  And wee ll both help him .  So shall you anon master Buzzard .  Come tast it better , her 's another to thee .  A great friend of the vintners , and master of their company indeed .  I , there was thrist . More wine boy . A pottle and a beer bowl .  Think no more of Masters , friends are better then Masters .  It signifies , that you deserv'd fairly at your masters hands , like a Gentleman , and a Buzzard as you were , and he turn'd you away most beastly like a swine , as he is . And now here is a health to him , that first finds his wife , and sends her home with a bouncing boy in her belly for him to father .  This fellow was happily found .  What else .  But heark you , friend , if your beard were off , could you be like him think you ? What if you cut it off , and to him for a father .  Could earthly man have dreamt this rascal  Whose Letchery , to all our thinking , was  Nothing but greedy Avarice and cosonage ,  Could have been all this while a conceal'd whoremaster ,  To have a Bastard of so many years  Nursled i' th' Countrey ?  Ha , ha , ha —  To think how nimble the poor uzzard is  To be reveng'd on 's Master ; How he has Shap'd himself ;  Cut off his beard , and practis'd all the postures  To act the Changeling bastard .  Come away then .  Trifles you have of ours .  And my Annuity of a hundred Marks .  That knows a party , that can go to the house —  That made report of a great Magician beyond the Seas .  To morrow night say you .  How glad the raschal is for his Wives death .  Perhaps he has got a new Wife , and intends  To make a funeral and a Marriage feast  In one to hedge in charges .  How ere we 'll grace his feast with our presentment .  We left him with his foster father , Arnold ,  Busy at rehearsal practising their parts .  Yes , and our actors  Are here at hand : But we perceive much business  First to be set a foot . Here 's Revels towards .  But first there is to be some odd collation  In stead of supper .  I hope he 'l marry his Moor to anger us .  The moral is , If Quicksands marry her ,  Her face shall be white as his conscience .  Now me .  The devil take him , made thee a soothsayer .  What 's the matter , Mr. Quicksands ?  I swear the Rascals act it handsomly .  Tell that Gentleman : He is an upright Majestrate  And will see thee righted .  Now it works .  Why , he gets something towards his living me thinks .  What say you , Sir ?  Your Ethiopian Princess .  How do you feel your self .  Why take you on so , for an ougly feind ?  Is this your merry night , Sir ?  Come , we will hear this cause try'd .  Quicksands affirm'd to us , that she was dead .  Let not grief master you , Mr. Quicksands .  And prove he 's not your bastard . Speak now roundly .  A match . Now look you Sir , your quandam servant ,  All but the beard he wore ; for loss of which  We 'le recompence him . 