 Alas my Francisco —  Sir t is not  The Riddance of the one , to gaine the other ,  Both which are equall blessings unto me  Can ad unto my present happinesse  More , then the thought of your paternall wisdome ,  VVhose provident care was author of this good :  Chiefly to you I therefore wish the comfort .  No I could weepe for that .  Deare Father — Father —  Sir , I beseech you heare me —  Sir , — deare sir —  Indeed you will be sorry .  For the mistake you run away withall .  So nigh and yet not come sir ,  Fearing how many dangerous houres are thither .  Loves Minutes , sir , are dayes , and houres are years ,  When each protracted , multiplies our feares .  Was not I sir applauding of your wisdome ,  And giving you the glory of my comfort  In this approved match ?  Had you but heard me out , I had magnified  My fortune , sprung out of your providence .  First then , how first your admirable wisdome  Weighing how I had setled my affection  Upon Francisco excellent in parts ,  Of noble blood , how ever low in fortune ,  You gave your free consent ( knowing your estate  To be a portion fitter to restore him  Unto the dignity of his Ancestors ,  Then to be added to anothers Muck-hill )  That I should be his wife —  Nay deare sir flie not off .  I say you gave consent , that I should be  Wife to that noble Gentleman ( pray sit still sir )  As you had foreseene my future happines  Only in him consisted — sir untill  This wealthy heire , young Fabritio ,  You Neighbour Trades-mans Son , of great estate ,  Was by his father tender'd unto you  For me a husband , then unseene by mee :  But since I must confesse a proper man ,  Worthy a fitter Wife —  But that your wisdome needs will have it so ,  By reason that his heapes may purchase honour ,  Which to'thers wants can never wash away ,  But farewell him : I must looke this way now ;  And crown your wisdome with this closing point ,  That whereas I betroth'd was to Francisco ,  And Pantalonies Sonne unto another ,  ( A Lady as t is justified at Rome )  You force me on this man , the fittest husband  On whom to make my party good hereafter ,  Who shall not dare to upbraide my breach of faith .  Happy successe attend you sir , whilst I Rest here in prayers for you .  I , I , be sure of that , and I could wish  My thoughts were prisoners too : that they might fly  No further then the casement , or the wicket ;  Where they ( loose things ) get out , and nothing bring  Back to this heart , but cold and sad returnes .  O my Astutta —  As thou didst ever dreame what true love was ,  Fancy some way to quit me of this bondage ;  Or else contrive this houre to be my last .  O doe not vex me into longer life .  Either speake helpe , or let me die in silence .  Else let thy pitty of my youth preserve me .  Nay deare Astutta hast thou thought a course ?  If Knife , or Poyson , Fire , or Water may  Remove this wretched cause , I 'le do it else .  Thou tortur'st me .  O couldst thou be so vertuous ! Then I know  Some quaint devise would issue from thy braine  To conjure and controwle his weaker spirits .  Thou knowst I have command of Gold and Jewells  Enough to buy a Senators large conscience :  Doe thou command it all to win him to us ,  That petty thing . Dos he appeare bribe-free ?  Is he the only officer uncorrupted ?  What I beseech you ?  How dos hee Nanulo ?  Insolent slave !  You know I may not stir beyond the Key  You keepe , and yet you wish me stay within .  VVell sir , you know I shall not stir abroad ;  VVhen shee is come shee 's welcome with my thanks .  Returne so by the messenger .  Yes , and wish there a second Maydenhead ,  On the condition .  Now thou comforts me .  What wouldst thou do ?  What wonders thou wouldst doe !  I pray thee leave thy idle pratle , and let  Me heare thy moving Letter .  But thou hast set him down no meanes .  I thank thee good Astutta . O that the messenger Would be as true to mee !  I pray thee peace .  Thou dalliest with my feares .  I cannot : let mee goe .  He is not noble .  I would not heare  A mention of him ; much lesse would I see  The least relation from his hated hands .  Had she there Lucrece ' Knife , or Portias coales ,  Or Cleopatra's ashes I could embrace 'em .  I doe accept them .  I must reject any from him but these .  Ha! looke here Astutta ;  The lively image of my love Francisco !  A thousand kisses shall thy welcome be ,  Happy resemblance of my hoplesse love ;  As many thanks to you , good , vertuous Woman ,  O let me fall and blesse the ground that beares thee ,  And aske forgivenesse for my late rude trespasse .  And could Fabritio ( I can name him now )  Shew me such Kindnesse , and himselfe so noble ,  To send mee this ?  Ever and onely ( though I thanke him for 't )  He need not have urg'd that .  Let then the charge be mine . Here 's forty duccats .  And could you but convey a Letter for me  To my Francisco , take a hundred more .  Seale it Astutta .  Nay I dare trust you ( Read it if you please )   But will you gi 't him Faith ? I never swore  Nor urg'd a body to an oath before .  O my Francisco !  Francisco —  You need not bid , nor wish it in these armes ,  Who ever praye's for those in Paradise ?  Bell rings .   Ay me ! How soon my feares controule my blisse ?  I have blasphem'd in my security ,  And terror threats my downfall into torment .  Our hast and feares could not find time to dress him  But I have lock'd him up into that presse .  I am undone then .  O me he comes !  O Father , Father —  What shall we say ?  So well , that now come Father Friends , and all  The friendly Foes that did oppose my blisse  I can maintaine my cause in these safe armes  'Gainst all their Frownes and Furies . 