 Is shee so rare a Creature , this Novella ?  You have not seene her often ?  And all this Beauty , and this seeming vertue Offer'd to sale ?  Why do we then make way to visit her  By our expence in Musick ?  VVhat doe you meane ?  I must embrace you sir .  Nor what , nor unto whose —  In good time sir .  Thou hast given a hint , for which I will renown thee .  Take your free choyce .  And though our project run not the same way ,  It may conclude with yours to crown the day .  Not before you good sit .  Your diligence were better somewhere else :  This prying into womens businesses  Is ill sir for your eye-sight , and perhaps  May spoile your growth , Good Sir , I crave your absence .  Come Mistris Bride , — Nay blush not , pretty one ,  To take the name one day before your time .  I hate the Name , on those accursed termes ,  That have prefix'd the time . Good Astutta ,  Breake with her by your selfes ; I cannot speake :  My teares forbid me .  Come Mistris , see . What weep you , pretty one ?  What! and the great good turne so near you ? ha !  What will she doe to morrow night ?  Perhaps so too ; and laugh as fast e're morning ,  Come Lady , come , hear me , and see my ware :  T is from Fabritio , he , that noble Gentleman ,  Dos not your heart leap now ? Now but suppose  French chaines here of five hundred crowns a peece ;  A rich Pearle Neck-lace , Saphire and Ruby Bracelets ;  Variety of Jewells , and a Diamond work —  I hate their price and them , the Sender more .  Pray stay sweet Lady ,  I doe not say Frabritio sent such things ,  I said I came from him , that noble Gentleman .  Judge him by his presents ,  And see the things he sends .  Look you how near I fit you . See what 's here  A halter a Knif a Viall .   What a choyce chaine is this ! and here 's a Knife ,  As sharpe as that of Lucrece . And , for coales ,  Here is a poisonous juice , whose every drop  Would eat through Iron . These Fabritio sends you .  Stay ; conditionally  If you refuse another present here .  Here Lady , look on 't pray ; examine 't well .  A Picture ,   And take or this or those .  Recall your selfe , sweet Lady , tender heart !  On this condition ( as I was to say )  That you embrace it in the memory  Of him your Love , namely his friend Francisco ,  And that you ever love , and onely him .  'T was his great care to worke mee to this Message ,  Knew you but my desire to further Lovers  You need not bid so much . Give me the Letter .  Then you know me not  I must be privy unto all I carry ,  Where I meet doubts , I never undertooke .  Indeed you may . To wrong an innocence  Reads it .   So sweet as yours were sin inexpiable .  T is given already Flavia . Hence disguise ,  More yet ? nay all shall off . Doe you know me yet ?  Curs'd be this idle habit  In which my impious curiosity ,  To make a tryall of her constancy  Hath wounded her so deepe with jealousy  Of a mistrust in me , that now shee faints  Under the passion ; and perhaps may die so ,  Flavia ! my Love ! O —  By all the blisse that a true Lover wishes —  By all the oathes and practises of Lovers —  I was not jealous of thy constancy ,  Flavia ! my Love , my Life ! my Flavia .  Help me ; for Love's sake helpe to make her speak ,  Or but looke up —   Speake my Flavia .  Be cheard my Love , I came to rescue thee ;  And hir'd this habit and the Pedlers craft ;  Prayd for her absence , and her silence too ,  And caus'd a Gondalo wait at the back dore  In case I might surprise thee . Pray take comfort .  What shall we doe ?  Lovers shall saint thee ; and this day shall be  For ever callenderd to Love and thee .  Lady your noblenesse shown in this great bounty ,  Hath not alone wip'd off my foule suspition :  But scor'd upon my breast an endlesse summe  Of thanks ; which I , unable to discharge ,  Must not presume to live , but as your Creature ;  Nor will I further dare to tempt your goodnesse  In deeper search of what your reason was  ( Past all my hopes and wishes ) to provide  For me ; I will not sum in such a scruple :  For sure , I hold you for a power Divine  ( Past all the fictions of the fabulous times  Fashioning out the Gods in earthly formes )  Sent by the highest providence to helpe me .  And let me beg  Your suffrage Lady , I may bid them welcome .  This is the Lady I am bound to serve .  I will not whisper it , Horatio ,  The woman that I dealt with for disguise  Was wrought before by this most matchlesse Lady  To crosse the Match twixt Flavia and Fabritio ;  And had undone it though I had done nothing ,  And ere she would condition with me ,  Oblig'd me , by an oath , ( in case we scap'd )  To bring her hither to this Ladies house .  I kept that oath , and here you find us welcom'd .  Shee has done so well ,  That , if a Match in Venice may be found  By my best care , I 'le helpe her to a Husband ,  For shee deserves a good one .  Let her see your face .  Good sir ,  Stop not the blessing you were about to give us . 