 Bring 'em in .  Disanius , welcome . I thought well to send for you  To take a Councellors part of my late cares  Into your consideration .  Nearer good Disanius .  Stratocles , Justinius , Disanius sit .  My lords , altho' our Lawes of Thessaly  To you , as well as to our self , are known ,  And all our customs , yet for orders sake  I shall lay open one to you . That is , when  A king deceaseth without issue male  ( As I unfortunately must ) the Commons  Are to elect their King , provided that  He be of noble blood , a sculdier , and one  That has done publick service for the Crown —  Or else the son of some  Great General slain in battel for his countrey  ( As my Adrastus was . )  Twenty years sorrow for that Souldiers loss  Has not worn out his memory .  Some other time to boast good Stratocles .  Or if the sonless King  Yet has a daughter , and he match her in  His life time to a husband that is noble ,  He stands immediate heir unto the Crown  Against all contradiction .  It rests now that a speedy choice be made  Of a fit husband , one that may acquire  Eudynas love , and peoples approbation ,  The people , ( for whose noise I must not rest  Till my successor be appointed to them )  Are wild till this election be made :  They have , in arms , made their demand , and wait  My present answer .  Nay , pray approach ; & seem no more abash'd  Here then amongst your giddy-headed rowts ,  Where every man 's a King , and wage your powers  Gainst mine in foul defiance . Freely speak  Your grievance , and your full demand .  There you may read my Lords what we before  Found would be their demand . T is for a King  That must succeed me .  Cease your strife . — You have stood , more inclin'd  To lay your choise on Philocles , or Philargus  The Twin-born sons of long since slain Adrastus .  Tell 'em they shall expect , then , but a moneth ,  In which short time my daughters marriage  Shall be consummate .  And now , my Lords , the commons being at peace ,  Let me prevail your private jarrs to cease .  To determine  Of you Eudyna , is by heaven committed  In present unto me . On you depends  The future glory and prosperity ,  Both of my house and Kingdom . T is besides ,  Exacted of me by my near Allies ,  And by my Subjects ( whom I must secure )  To constitute a Successor : And no longer  Will I expect your answer , then five dayes .  By then you must declare who is your husband ;  Or else expect one from my self ; the man  Whose name I am as loth to mention  As you to hear , even Stratocles .  Be you obedient ; and by the way ,  Take my approvement of Lord Philocles ,  Not that I slight Philargus .  Come both you equal brothers ; leave her to  Her thoughts a while .  Pray trouble me no further . I have said ,  That if in five dayes space she make not choice  Of one of those whom ( I must tell you Stratocles )  She loves , and I prefer before you , then  I 'le weigh your suit , and reasons ; and till then  I say 't again , you are a trouble to me .  This Oracle  Troubles me not a little . I had thought  Thereby to have declin'd this weighty care  From my declining shoulders , and have given  My countrey satisfaction , and my self ,  In chusing of a son and successor .  But I am prisoner in the Labyrinth  Of the Gods verdict .  Thou hast allay'd my fear . Justinus come ,  Lead me thy brains assistance . For in thee  I find a temper that accords with me .  Bereft of all my joyes and hopes at once !  Is there no comfort , nor no counsel left me ?  Why stand you gazing thus with sealed lips ?  Where is your counsell now , which you are wont  In trifling matters to pour out in plenty ?  Now , in the peril of my life and state  I cannot get a word . Give me my daughter ,  Or take my Kingdom too . Where is she ? Tell me .  He ask'd my leave to leave the Court , and had it .  But what ha' you said for her recovery .  Stil upon him ? Where 's Philocles ? where 's Philargus ?  They are missing too .  Whence springs this Rumor .  Stil you judge Stratocles .  What purpose can he have in 't .  And , had they tane Eudina with them too ,  My doubts and fears were over , well as yours .  Yet forbear me now .  I do approve your judgment good Disanius ,  But wish you not insult ore mans dejection .  We find that Stracocles is much Penetent  And troubled at his trespass .  The time for my Eudina's match draws near ,  And I no longer will attend on fortune ,  I have decreed it past recal , regardless  Whether against the oracle , or with it .  One she shall chuse of them : If not , I 'le put  A third upon her .  No reason urges me ;  And yet I find an inclination in me  That pleads for him . I can perceive you too ,  Are partial towards Philargus . Can you yield  A reason for 't ?  Alas , But not an hour . Well , I 'le remit  My power propounding , and accept  Her choice of either , made within the time .  No answer , no return ? Must I intreat ,  Yet have my undeserved favours slighted ?  Stupid folly  'T were longer to attend . My vow is past  And register'd in heaven ; the minute is  At hand , that calls down thonder on me , which  No tear , or prayers can mollifie or aver 't ,  If I upon so long deliberation  Shall falsifie . So , call in Stratocles .  I 'le leave that to the Gods .  You are full of dreams .  Dare not to disobey me )  Receive Eudina .  Do you refuse her then .  Strangely , unexpected  Are you become a suppliant Placilla ?  I expected , rather ,  News from your unkind brothers . See Justinius ,  The Commons , rather then I shall bestow  My daughter upon Stratocles , do beseech me  To take a further time .  How ere thy divination proves , thy wish  Is worth our thanks . And we may have  Glad tidings presently . Now Eupathus  Where is Disanius , Philocles , and Philargus ?  Why come they not ?  O do  They plead excuse then ?  Justinius , Stratocles , read here this Paper .  Go Eupathus , and let them enter . Stay .  Yet go , bring them in their prescribed manner .  I 'le send the woman off , whose sodain grief  May be a bar to our proceedings . Madam —  I must intreat a while your absence , Lady .  My will has been above your question . Pray ,  Let me request you go .  And go Placilla , send old Garrula to me .  What means this ?  Pray pull not  More weight upon your breast then you can bear ,  By your impertinent stay . Go I command you .  I have not known her thus . I fear destraction  Fore-runs the voice of grief , as to prevent it .  Heaven knowes I call'd for Garrula , but to send her  With best directions to prepare and arm  Her tender soul against the sting of sorrow  Before it should approach her . But Eudina  You must be valliant ; and not let the sight  Of death in others shake your confidence .  Suppose that both  Your fatal lovers , Philocles and Philargus  Slept in the caves of death .  Suppose his desteny had cut off one ,  And , in him , all the impediments , that crost  You in th' enjoying of the other , say  Which could you wish surviver ? But you have  Declar'd your constant purpose to possess  The first Disanius brings into this presence .  Come ; one is dead . There is a strict necessity  You know it . Now collect your Reason : For 't is not  Your passion for the dead ; nor your dislike  Of Stratocles ; no though my subjects yeeld you  A longer time , shall make me tempt the Gods  By breaking of my vow . Be stedfast then ,  As you respect a father ; and take courage .  See Philocles lives .  What being dead ? Could you affect 'em so  Equally , both alive , that you forbore  To chuse , because you could not have 'em both ;  And now seek onely him cannot be had ?  What Love , what madness call you this ? good Gods ,  Throw not your wrath upon me in destruction on the other   I thank thee good Justinius .  Your virgin tears and vowes ore your lost love  I did attend with pardon , my Eudina ,  In hope you are now compliant to my will .  The Gods have pleas'd Eudina to determine  Your doubtful choice , reserving Philocles  Unto your love without competitor :  Therefore it now remains that he be taken  Into your liking ; whom I have decreed  My successor .  For what ? the celebration ? I consent ;  But for the contract , this imediate hour  Shall see it knit beyond all dissolution .  Give me your hands .  Yours Philocles .  Why this delay ?  Has he confes'd the fact ?  Your patience good Disanius Sirrah speak .  Your Lord shall be your judge then .  My fear foresaw 't .  Is not that  Enough to dry your tears , and shew , you that  The Gods were rather merciful in leaving  This son , then rigorous in taking tother ?  You then must yeeld  More reason then I find you have .  No trifling I command you Thymele .  How !  What dreams are these of your distemperd heads ,  Freely speak , you have it .  True : In her flight she was constrain'd to take  A neighbouring cottage ; and use the help  Of the Swains wife .  I cannot think our Queen  Would keep us ignorant of so good a Fortune .  My joy forbids more questioning  Give me my flesh and blood into my bosome .  Thrice happy Fathers if your Children were  Borne to you thus of perfect Age . But where  Is now a Match for my Eudina . I  Have here a successor .  Hah ! Voyces i' th Ayre that cry Philargus ?  Philargus you have much to know ; the which  We will Eudina tell you , now shee 's yours .  Receive her and our blessing .  You shall not be a looser Thymele :  Philocles shall be yours , and in exchange  Placilla mine .  Who can repeat the answer , I ha' lost it .  Apollo thou hast fill'd us all with joy ,  But has our joy already fill'd our Court  With Musick ?  My thanks to all .  Thanks to Apollo . Let his temple be  The place of our solemnity . His Altars  Let them be laden with Arabian spices ;  Let his Priests lead , in a devout procession ,  The horned Sacrifice , mantled with Ghirlonds  And we ( our Temples crown'd with Laurel ) follow  With Musick , sounding Hymen and Apollo . 