 Well , sir , you will be of both you say , the Blade and the Battoon ?  Your money again ? loe you there . You bring me a fit man , Gentlemen to be sworn , do you not ? that talks of money again , when 't is a main Article in the Oath , never to look for money again , once disfinger'd .  Well , to the Oath then , for both the Bsade and the Battoon you say ?  Lay your hands on these Hilts , sir . The Articles that you depose unto are these , To be true and faithful unto the whole Fraternity of the Blade and the Battoon , and to every member thereof .  That at no time , wittingly or ignorantly , drunk or sober , you reveal or make discovery of the Brother , or a member of the Brotherhood , of his lodging , haunts , or by-walks , to any Creditor , Officer , Sutler , or such like dangerous or suspitious person .  That if any of the Brotherhood be in restraint or distresse by imprisonment , sicknesse , or whatsoever engagement , you make his case your own , and your purse and your travel his ; and that if a brother die or finish his dayes , by end timely or untimelie , by Surfet , Sword , or Law . You wear the sable order of the Riband in remembrance of him .  That your purse and weapon to the utmost  of your strength , be on all occasions drawn to the assistance or defence of a Brother or Brothers friend , be it he , be it she .  That you be ever at deadly defiance with all such people , as Protections are directed to in Parliament , and that you watch all occasions to prevent or rescue Gentlemen from the gripes of the Law brissons . That you may thereby endear your selfe into noble society , and drink the juice of the Varlets labours for your officious intrusions .  You must rank your self so much the better man , by how much the more drink you are able to purchase at others costs .  You are to let no man take wall of you , but such as you suppose will either beat you or lend you money .  The rest of your duties for brevity sake you shall finde specified in that copy of your Order . Kiss the book .  Now are you to practise or exercise your quality on the next you meet that is not of the Brotherhood .  Take heed of that , Come hither son .  I have given you all the rudiments , and my most fatherly advices withal .  That 's most unnecessary , for look you son , the best , and even the leudest of my sons do forbear it , not out of conscience , but for very good ends ; and in stead of an Oath furnish the mouth with some affected Protestation . As I am honest , it is so . I am no honest man if it be not . Ud take me , if I lie to you . Nev'rgo , nev'r stirre , l vow , and such like .  O take heed of that , that may be spoken in so ill an houre , that you may run out of reputation , and never be trusted indeed ; the other will gaine you credit , and bring you into good and civil estimation with your Hostesses ; and make 'em terme you a faire conditioned Gentleman if he had it ; and truly I never heard worse word come out of his mouth .  Part faire my boyes ; 't is very well perform'd ; now drink a round to qualifie this bout .  Forbear him sons . What canst thou be , that canst not be satisfied with beating ? speak , art a man or a Ghost ?  Sure , 't is Fenner or his Ghost . He was a riming souldier . Look , do his eyes stand right ?  I , let it be of Sack .  Let see the summe . What is 't Drawer ? 40. sh. and 3. d.  Si , your dinner , and what you had since , in all , sir .  'T is very reasonable , Commend me to thy Master . Son Clotpoll pay 't . It is your duty .  Boyes , I must leave you .  Sirrah , look to the second Article of your Oath .  Look that you be so .  Did not the company send for me ?  The City-mouth , that peck't us at my lodging last night , came to me with an abominable scratch't face , and warn'd me on a businesse hither .  If you doubt any thing , 't is best remove .  The fellow was sorely handled .  What ? the charm'd liquor that Medea brew'd to make old father Aeson young again ?  Must that renew his youthful spirit in him ?  You have conjur'd a fury into him to beat us into fitters .  I son , let 's go , our stay is dangerous .  They look like Peace-maintainers , we 'll fall off .  What 's the matter ?  Yes yes , 't is best . 