 DEar Sister , bear with me .  O my sister !  By powring blood on blood ?  We know he lives not that has slain our Father :  Or , if he lives , t is where I cannot reach him :  He nere saw English harbour since his sword  Unfortunately had the better of my father .  Good sister cool thy passion  With reasonable means   I know thy drift , good sister Dionisia ,  Is not unto revenge , or blood ; but to stir up  Some motion in me , to prevent the danger  A sad retiredness may bring upon me .  How merciless are your wishes !  But who has married her ?  But where 's your Jest ?  I 'le abroad however .  And yet me thinks I know not how to look  The wide world in the face , thus on the sudden  I would fain get abroad , yet be unknown .  Does it do well with me ?  Go fetch my sword and follow me .  Farewel Sister .  Why here 's trim stuff . Help ho , Murder , Murder .  Have you no hurt Sir .  By your favour , I will see .  I 'm glad it proves so .  Do you not know him sir ?  That scurvy , between proud and bashful quality ,  You are famous for , as tother toy that haunts you .  Why , to be deadly angry , sir ,  On least occasion , and friends as quickly .  Hot and cold in a breath : you are angry now  With him that fought for you I warrant you .  So t is that I told you .  Me thinks , Sir , his example should allay you :  Impatience was his ruine .  It was indeed your Fathers known infirmity ,  And ever incident to the noblest Natures .  But of your Father , is there yet no hope  Of better news ?  I have not heard a story of more wonder ;  That two such men , of such estates and years ,  Having liv'd alwayes friends and neighbours nearly ,  Should at the last fall out so mortally  On a poor cast at bowles ! Where wast they sought ?  You speak poor comfort Sir .  Now he 's there again .  And now there .  Why here 's the noble nature still . 'T wil shew it self .  Here 's an unsettled humor . In these fits  Hel 'e nere be mad , nor ever well in 's wits .  Not of the gentleman that sought for you . Ent. Arn.  But I have other newes that 's worth your knowledge .  Your enemy , young Arthur , that has not  Been seen abroad this twel'moneth is got forth  In a disguise I hear , and weapon'd well .  I have it from most sure inteligence .  Look to your self , sir .  Sister ! where are you ? How now ! not well or  Passion of heart ! where are our servants now  To run for doctors ? ho —  What at thy heart ?  What may that proud grief be ? good sister name it .  Indeed I 'le know it .  It shall not afflict me .  Indeed you wrong me now . Can I chide you ?  You tax me nearly there .  With grief I go about to cure a grief then .  Now speak it boldly , Sister .  It is ! what is it ? If you love me , speak .  Alas dear sister , canst thou think that love  Deserves a chiding in a gentle breast ?  Ha!   She has put me to 't indeed . What must I do ?  She has a violent spirit ; so has he ;  And though I wish most seriously the match ,  Whereby to work mine own with his fair Sister ,  The danger yet , in the negotiation  May quite destroy my course ; spoyle all my hopes .  I le therefore put her off on 't if I can .  What! To undo you ?  I love you not so slightly . Pardon me .  A rough hand must be us'd : For here 's a wound  Must not be gently touch'd ; you perish then ,  Under a Brothers pitty . Pray sit quiet ;  For you must suffer all .  To love the Son of him that slew your Father !  To say it shews unlovingness of nature ;  Forgetfulness in blood , were all but shallow  To the great depth of danger your fault stands in .  It rather justifies the act it self ,  And commends that down to posterity  By your blood-cherishing embraces . Children ,  Born of your body , will , instead of tears ,  By your example , offer a thankful joy  To the sad memory of their Gransiers slaughter .  Quite contrary ! How fearful 't is to think on 't !  What may the world say too ? There goes a daughter ,  Whose strange desire leap'd from her Fathers ruine ;  Death gave her to the Bride-groom ; and the marriage  Knit fast and cemented with blood . O Sister —  How ! Well ? And so quickly cur'd ?  This is plain .  How wise and cunning is a womans malice ;  I never was so cozened .  The best , Sir , I can tell is , the old Jew  Quicksands has lost his wife .  T is not so well for him : for if she were  He then might overtake her though she were  Gone to the devil . But she 's run away :  But to what corner of the earth , or under  Whose bed to find her is not to be thought .  It has rais'd such a laughter in the town  Among the Gallants — !  Yes ; and if you do not out-laugh all men  That hear the joyful newes , t is too good for you .  Hold , Pray Sir , hold .  Turn'd out o' doors ! A dainty frantick humour  In a young Master ! Good enough for me though ;  Because t is proper to old serving-men  To be so serv'd . What course now must I take ?  I am too old to seek out a new Master .  I will not beg , because I le crosse the proverb  That runs upon old serving creatures ; stealing  I have no minde to : T is a hanging matter .  Wit and invention help me with some shift  To help a cast-off now at a dead lift .  Sweet fortune hear my suit .  I le tell you in your ear , sir , I dare trust you .  That clinches Sir .  How vainly this man talks !  'T is all your glory that ; and to make boast  Of the variety that serves your lust :  Yet not to know what woman you love best .  And thinkst thou hast done well in 't !  But thou nere thinkst of punishments to come ;  Thou dream'st not of diseases , poverty ,  The loss of sense or member , or the cross  ( Common to such loose livers ) an ill marriage ;  A hell on earth to scourge thy conscience .  Nay , that will be too good : If I foresee  Any thing in thy marriage destiny ,  'T wil be to take a thing that has been common  To th' world before , and live with thee perforce  To thy perpetual torment .  No , I cannot .  Let your valiant wit  And jocound humor be suppos'd no warrant  For you t' abuse your friends by .  I care not if I do : For 't will be Town talk .  My Sister on a private discontent  Betwixt her self and me hath left my house .  Yes , And I know not whither .  No , No ; My man 's gone with her .  Even he .  Let me charm you ,  By all our friendship , you nor speak nor hear  An ill construction of her act in this ,  I know her thoughts are noble ; and my wo  Is swoln unto that fulness , that th' addition  But of word in scorn would blow me up  Into a cloud of wild distemper'd fury  Over the heads of all whose looser breath  Dare raise a wind to break me . Then I fall  A sodain storm of ruin on you all .  You were too rash , Sir , in that oath , if I  May be allowed to speak .  I pray excuse me , Sir ,  I cannot fit my self to mirth .  Were you the seeming Moor was here ?  What 's to be done ? Pray speak , and t is perform'd .  Whither ? to whom ? speak quickly : why do you stoop ?  By all that 's good and gracious , I will die  Ere I forsake you , and not set you safe  Within those walls you seek .  You shall grace me .  By your leave Gentlefolks .  You are advis'd enough : Sir , if you please  But to be short , I 'le shew you I am a Norfolk man ,  And my name is John Hulverhead .  You cannot hear o'chat side it seems .  But you know my brother Matthew Hulverhead  Deceas'd , with whom you plac'd this simple child of yours .  I cannot hear o'th at ear neither , sir .  I may not till I be righted . I come for right , and  I will have right , or the best of the Citie shall  Hear on 't .  I am a poor Norfolk man , sir . And I come to ease myself of a charge , by putting off a childe nat'ral to the natural father here .  Be not asham'd on 't , sir : You are not the first grave and wise Citizen that has got an ideot .  How does other bawdy Batchelors get children ?  He needs none o' your skill it seems .  'T is not denyed Sir , There was such agreement ,  But now he is another kind of charge .  Yes , he has learn'd to thrip among the Mothers ;  But Sir , withal , to do more harm then good by 't ,  And that 's the charge I speak of : we are not bound  To keep your child , and your childes children too .  Sir , by his cunning at the Rock ,  And twirling of his spindle on the Thrip-skins ,  He has fetch'd up the bellies of sixteen  Of his Thrip-sisters .  So well he takes after his father here it seems .  He sha'not fright me with that , though it be  A great mans part to turn over his bastards  To his servants . I am none of his hirelings , nor  His Tenants I . But I know what I say ; and I know  What I come about ; and not without advise ; And you  May know , that Norfolk is not without as knavish  Councel , as another County may be . Let his man Buz .  Be brought forth , and see what he will say to 't .  Ask your father blessing Timsy .  Upon your knees man .  Shall I , Sir , and my charge stay too ?  No , no , fear nothing .  That 's to little purpose ,  My business is the thing — yonder 's the star !  What young Gentleman is that your Mistris arm  Appears so courteous too ?  He seems some well grac'd suitor . 'T is my fear ,  If he should now — I must be just however .  Sir , though I am still a stranger in my visit ,  To works of gentleness , I am partly known .  There ( if you chance t' enquire of me hereafter  ( When I shall more deserve your inquisition )  I may be found , if not exact in service ,  A least a poor pretender in my wishes :  And so presenting this white gift , ( more modest  Then the most secret duty of mans friendship  Can ever be ) I take my leave —  How shie and nice we are to meet our happinesse !  Like dying wretches , 'fraid to go to rest .  Because you shall be guilty of no breach  I 'le ope the Casket for you .  He 's fallen into a slumber .  He shall have all our cares .  I see my old Masters face again , and I will  Fear nothing .  Nor I , I hope , while my old Master lives . Y' are welcome home Sir . 