 COme , I protest I 'le have you home againe ,  And tell all to your Father , if you goe not  More chearfully on about this businesse .  So , so , he runs away to proper purpose  That beares his Hue and Cry in 's conscience .  Do so ; and damne thee blacker then the night ,  Thee and thy Father too for company  Expresse your filiall Reverence so , doe so .  Peace fond Fabritio .  Dost thou not fly from him to save his Soule ?  His and thine own to boot ? will not thy stay  ( Stay not to answer me ) ruine your Family ;  Cut off all hope of Blessing , if not Being  Of your Posterity ? and all this by obaying  A wilfull Father in a lawlesse Marriage ;  More fatall ( I foresee 't ) then ere our State  Of Venice yet produc'd example for .  Why flie we not to Rome then , where you left her ,  And shun the danger of your Fathers Plot ,  Which would not only force you break your Faith  With chast Victoria , but to wed another ,  Whose faith is given already to another ?  Double damnation ! 'T were a way indeed  To make your children bastards o' both fides .  That would be thought on .  Some Night-walkers , that throw  Balls at their Mistresses , well of all Citties  Under the universall raigne of venery ,  This is the civill'st ! in what sweet tranquillity ,  The subjects passe by and salute each other !  Stay , what grave beast , what reverend Gib is that ?  ( I' th' name of darknesse ) dropt out of a gutter ?  O age what art thou come to !  Looke there Fabritio , Venus can it be ?  Nay now I know I am not ,  For by that little loving glimpse of light  That leads him on , Fabritio , t is thy Father .  What will this City come to ?  A young man shall not shortly venture to  A vaulting Schoole for feare he jumpe in the  Same sadle with his Father , to the danger  Of his old bones .  Enter Francisco , and Horatio .   Stay here comes more . This is  Some speciall haunt ! sure t is the habitation  Of the Novella lately come to Town ,  Which drawes the admiration of all  The Rampant Gallantry about the City !  And is like  So to continue , still shee prove stale fish ,  At the rate shee 's stamp'd for : for she has set  Such a large price upon her new nothing ,  That Venery and Prodigality are at ods  About her , it seemes thy Father could not bargaine .  Not hee ! peace and stand close .  Now if a man  Were to unkennell the handsomest shee Fox  In Venice , let him follow these doggs . Sure  Shee is earth'd hereabouts . They have the sent .  What rare helpe  May this be to devotion , that he speaks of !  I thought 't was such a peece .  What a way , now , would that money reach  In Buttock-beefe .  A wary whore-master : I like him well :  A penneyworth for a penny would be look'd for .  Francisco ! is it hee ?  There 's love in couples ,  What whelpes are these ? sure this Francisco is  The late forsaken lover , betroth'd to Flavia  Whom now thy Father would so violently  Force thee to marry .  O here they pitch , stand close , wee 'l heare their Musick .  T is he , and I will speake to him .  Francisco must not so forget his Flavia .  Men , that would have you be so ,  And not to wanton out your holy vowes  Drawes   Dancing your selfes to th' Devill .  I meane , Francisco , you too much forget  The love you bore to Flavia , shee to you ,  Here stands the man denies it , speake Fabritio .  Your offer sir is large : yet let me aske  If we may rest securely for a day ;  Lurke close and private , till the appointed houre  For this forc'd Marriage be over-slipp'd ,  In case that our necessity may require it ?  Be cheard Fabritio , thou shalt not to Rome ,  VVe may prevent thy danger nearer home .  Now night we thanke , and follow thee away  ( As being thy servants ) from th' approach day .  But good Lyatico I assure you sir  I 'le be your taster to quit feare of danger ,  Piso drinks .   And now I 'le let you know we have made oath  Upon this nimble master of invention  This sprightly liquor to be firme , and faithfull  To one another in a present project .  Take you the lame , and grow in one with us .  Let it suffice ,  We carry that about us shall end you ,  They draw Stillettoes   And presently , if you comply not with us .  Thou art a Soothsayer .  Then you must answer  To these intergatories . First do you know  If the old men Guadagni and Pantaloni  Doe hold their purpose for their match to morrow  Betwixt Fabritio here , and Flavia ?  But Nicolo , where was your reverend Master  Attended by your selfe before day-light ?  No more then Noon ifaith , a man may spie  An old whore-master in the darkest night  Like an old Cat , by th' gloring of his eyes .  Will his old Mutton-mongership nere leave ?  He is already known sufficiently  Thorough the City for his gift that way ;  And yet he will deny his sonne free choyce ,  And force him marry one hee not affects .  But has he made the purchace ? has he bought  The famous peece of flesh , the rare Novella ?  My noble Nicolo out with 't I say .  What! Has he done ?  So to your severall wayes .  WHy not me , Lady ? stand not I as faire ,  And fit for your embrace as any man ?  T is but to try my Courtship , I presume ,  That you put on this coynesse , and to draw  More ample testimony of affection ,  By Protestation , Prayers , Compliments ;  The weakest ceremonies due to love ;  Meere noyse and Lip-labour , with losse of time .  I thinke with scorne upon such poore expressions ,  And am above the art of Amorists ,  That cringe and creepe by weake degrees of Love ;  To Kisse the hand , the Cheek , the Lip , then cry  O Divine touch ! then smirk , and then embrace ,  Then nuzzle in the Elizium of your bosome ,  And be entranc'd ! meanes fit for duller spirits ,  To gather heat and strength of appetite .  My desire speakes in Loves true dialect ;  And , from my heart inflam'd , you may perceive  Loves fire rage in mine eyes , enough  To melt to yeildingnes a frozen breast .  In this I talke too much . I finde you yeilding .  Let us retire then .  Is this earnest ?  I 'le be playner then ,  What make you here i' th' Smock-Faire , precious Mistris ?  Or why these dressings , these perfumes and paintings ?  Doe you weare the habit of our Curtezans ,  And , by their art , call Gazers to your beauty ,  Full of high hopes and flames of ardent Love ,  Thus to delude , and make them witnesses  Of a cold seeming Chastity ? what new Art  Is this ? it cannot be to get a husband !  That 's soone believ'd , yet , no disparagement  To your expert sufficiency in the trade :  For the best Carpenters make fewest chips ,  There 's very few of all your function fruitfull :  Yet some there be approved men at armes  Famous in publique service ; and a many  Good handy craftsmen in the Arsenall  Bred by this bounteous City from such mothers  That nere could boast their fathers ; and as many  Daughters ( if they prove worthy in their feature )  Succeed their active Mothers in their fortunes .  T is common knowledge Lady . Nor do I  Read this t' informe your selfe , who were instructed  ( I make no doubt ) before your price was set ,  By all examples to your present practise .  Lady , this overacted State might fit  The wife of a Clarissimo , or the bashfull  Daughter of some Patrician : but in you ,  A piece set out to sale , it but appeares  Affected singularity , more unsutable  To the temptations you weare about you  Then th' holy seeming pictures in your Chamber .  It dos , to thinke what new and secret aime  You may intend by this ; in taking on you  The habit , and the name of Curtezan :  And , first , to set a price so far beyond  The strength of any ordinary meanes ;  And then to shew a carriage that may strike  Lust out of countenance ! O the Knot 's dissolv'd !  O Oedipus ! O Sphynx ! I now have found it  You fish for Fishermen ( t is pregnant truth )  Shee claps a Cardinall aboord at least :  T is not a Lay-mans purse , or Learning can ,  Or purchace , or confute you , i st not so ?  I feare shee 'l prove another creature then  The Beast I tooke her for : shee knows her strength .  Said like a noble Wench ,  Onely a word by way of friendly advise ,  And so farewell . This Maydenhead of yours ,  By you so highly pris'd ; now being ripe  ( And therein only merchantable ware )  Will , if you overslip the season , grow  Sodainly fulsome , streight way stale , then Rotten :  Think upon choycest Fruit , or Foule , or Fish ,  Rich Wines , or any Rarity ; how soone  Their vertue 's lost .  Once more farewell — pray ponder on these things .  Could you consider how 't would grieve a soule  Indued with Reason , Knowing , the true use  Of Nature 's delicates , to see 'hem lost ,  Or spoil'd for want of seasonable taking ,  I know you would , and thanke me for my counsell .  Indeed farwell then .  No way but by the down-right composition  Of the two thousand Duccats to be enter'd .  And is as like to make a skitter brooke  Of you in your Dutch slops . For if she be not ,  After all this , a cunning whore , i 'me couzen'd .  The secret way , man , by her commings in  Too common among women for their livings ,  I 'le not believe her wit and feature are  Allyed to honesty .  No , If I worship any of 'hem more  Then in the Knee-trick , that is necessary  In their true use let me be eunuchiz'd .  Looke here 's your fathers Pimpe againe .  Hymen be their speed .  Come leave your fooling .  Your lodging protects me .  T is the proud Braches whiske !  Prithee deserve no beating til thou hast done  Thy errand . What dost come for ?  Sure he takes him for the Dutch loggerhead  We saw to day in the Piazza .  Wee 'l finde him too . Jog you sir on before :  You are no street companion for us .  But prithee hang thy Hangmans project now ,  And beare us company in thine own shape .  Yes , and I would so stand to 't , ha —  Then thou hast done 't , would I had still the Duccats  To pledge thee here .  What acted you , Tit , in this Comedy ?  Thou wilt , I find it in a villanous cast  Of that eye there .  Even such another , of another hue ,  Shee has a devilish gloat too .  But Lady , if you receive the Duccats  Before you come to us , pray bring our shares ,  Wee all connive you know .  I must yet have an eye upon this female  To quit my jealousy , or catch her i' th' nick .  Watch close , he comes .  VVhat 's that ?  I know not what to make o'th is wench .  Shee preaches me thinks :  Good !  I begin to suspect her honest .  Shee 'l prove honest o' my life .  Too honest to be a woman !  Fabritio's wench my life on 't .  This is the German that Fabritio apes .  O ha they done we come , we come .  VVell said my chattring Magpy . I will side thee .  You are Mistaken , shee did but wait upon her .  You shall know more of that anon sir .  And call the common Hangman if you please ,  And end all 'mong your selfes , if your grave wisdomes ,  And Lawyers , here , can find one guilty person  VVee 'l all submit our necks to you .  I will speake but truth .  And you , opposing it , shall wrong the dignity  You beare i' th' City , to your utter shames .  This Gentleman and your Daughter were contracted ,  Your selfe a willing witnesse ; your Son likewise  Unto a noble virgin ( Sir of whom  You shall know more anon )  It pleas'd diviner providence to take  From eithers chosen mate their earthly fortunes ;  Yet each had person , blood , and vertue left  Above the value of a Princes dowry .  VVould you so Kick at heaven then , in despight  Of its great Ordinance , as to force your children ,  To forfeit both their faiths , thereby to lose  The never-fayling hope of future blessings ,  To pull withall a curse on your own heads ,  That could no lesse then ruine your estates ,  And render you most wretched in your dotage ,  Past helpe or hope how to relieve your selfes :  Your consciences still groaning underneath  The lashes that your Childrens bastard issue  Should lay upon you ? more , you may consider —  This was no bawdy talke sir , nor have I  Heard worse from any mouth in this free place  Till your arrivall here .  You may Fabritio , for as I prize Life ;  Honour 'bove that ; and above both thy friendship ,  My soule is not assur'd of firmer truth ,  Let thy Dutch habit drinke off jealousy ,  And take her to thee .  You will know more anon . 