 O my Philargus . O my Philocles !  Ye Gods I know they did not seek your Counsels  Nor dare to approach your altars , but with all  Due reverence and required ceremony .  And could your Delphian Oracle , when they  Were friendly competitioners for love ,  Answer them but with death ?  T is some faign'd stuffe  She hopes to palliate our sorrowes with .  What means this woman ?  Be thou as true as th' Oracle .  I am well I thank you , Garrula .  You have felt the comforts of my friendship Garrula ,  And had you common charity , you 'd forbear me .  O ye Gods , I thank ye .  You interrupt me , brother .  O my dear off-spring ; every sight of you  Is a new recompence , and satisfaction  For all the pain and travel of your birth .  In you your fathers memory shall live  Beyond the malice of the grave and death :  And I , when my rejoycing shall be full ,  And cannot take addition , freely yeelding  My flesh to dust , shall yet be blest by those  VVho shall give testimony to your vertue .  Philocles ,  Your brow is clouded . Has the Oracle  Adjudg'd against you . Pray let us partake  The knowledge of the Delphian decree ;  And which of you stands highest in the favour  Of wise Apollo , to be husband to  Princesse Eudyna here the Kingdoms heir .  What speaks the Oracle ?  Not in anger , Garrula .  As how , Philocles .  What thinks good Justinius ?  Fie , fie Philargus , y' are a ssugish Lover .  I have been careful for you , yea and partial  Against your brother Philocles , to prefer  Your love to his : And you to suffer him  A whole hour opportunity before you !  And is . Onely for you  I have beguil'd him of her presence , that  Till you have made first presentation  Of love to her he shall have no access .  Why move you not Philargus towards the Princesse .  To avoid all lets ,  I will withdraw my self .  Your importunity hath prevail'd . See Philocles ,  The Princeis , and Philargus .  I can read his grief .  The Delphian God , medcines inventor knowes  That and not I .  And because  You charg'd my son with partiallity  Let us remove , Philargus , come Placilla .  What would you do with both ?  What not to give you brother Philocles  An opportunity for equal hearing ?  Your grace will not deney 't him .  Now Madam , whethers love do you approve .  Alass .  What strange amazement hath surpriz'd you Madam ?  No study , nor no strife can alter fate  Or the decrees , the Gods determinate .  A husband you shall have , be confident .  Be , as you were ; secure of the event ,  Till time produce it .  O Garrula ! well found , I was in quest of you .  What an imperious beldam 's this . But I  Must humour her . Sending for me do you say ?  For what , good Garrula .  What needs this Garrula ? I am here you see .  O me !  Who trust those secrets whereon honour rests  To custody in Mercenary breasts  Do slave nobility ; and though they pay  A daily ransom , nere redem't away .  Pray let us be more private , though indeed  I love your son for his great care of mine .  Why Garrula do you maintain a strife  Still in my grieved mind 'twixt hope and fear ?  Cannot so many years of my known kindness  Win yet a confidence of secrefie .  You are as deeply bound by oath too as my self .  But still take heed dear Garrula .  Have I not still been kind ?  Your place of honour in the Court —  Then Garrula your learned sons preferment ,  Tutor and Governour to my Sons .  Be confident ,  Though I confess I hold her worthless of him .  Geron , be comforted . By all my power ,  Doris shall be your own .  Now Doris , what portends your hast ? Speak Maid ,  Is it to Geron , or to me , your business ?  But by her Graces favour ,  And your leave , Doris , I will trench so far  On both your patiences , and for your good ,  As to be witness of an interchange  Of some few words twixt Geron and your self .  Why look you from him so ? he loves you , Doris .  Speak plainly to her , Geron .  And be you kinder , Doris .  I 'le ease your care ,  And be my self his Agent . Hee 's too learned ,  Geron , you speak too learnedly , as if  You woo'd a Muse : And Doris understands not ,  But by your posture , what you 'ld have . I 'le put  Your meaning into womans words ; and such  As shall be sure to speed . But first I 'le wait  Upon the Princess . Garrula , will you go ?  Nay , I will do 't Geron , be confident .  Go Geron , lead the way .  Yet think on 't , Madam ,  How gravely Geron goes , and with what scorn  The wanton Girl recoyles .  Then Beldame Garrula's reasons urging Doris ,  Shewing how either of his pupils grace  In your electing Philocles or Philargus ,  Though to them doubtful , is a sure advancement  To her by Geron .  You may not say so ( Madam ) t is in you  By taking one , to give new life to two ;  Your self , and if you 'l give me leave to name  The other , be it Philargus : or , if chance  Shall favour better , Philocles or him ,  Let it be him that gives you the first visit .  Who knowes  But that his Oracle would have it so .  Say , shall it be so Madam ; or suppose so ?  Yet sit , and let her sing : you 'l sleep the better .  What means your Grace .  Who Madam , where ? and when ?  Because we were awake  And saw nothing .  And of good ,  I dare divine it Madam . And now see  Whom fortune first hath sent to be your choice .  Philargus , you have won the glorious prize .  This is most fair : now , till you meet , t is fit  You fall on lighter purposes for your health .  Son , here was mirth to day ; although the Princesse  Relish'd it not .  Placilla , come you hither . I observe  A change in you of late ; and do suspect  The Reason . What! Do you blush at my suspition ?  Nay then you mak 't my knowledge . You are in Love .  I 'le yet come nearer you . I guesse with whom :  And at fit time I 'le school you for 't .  I wait o' your Grace . Nay , do not look displeas'd :  I tell you Girl , there is danger in it .  Yes they are with the Gods .  O me undone .  Yet am I confident in your assertion  You priests of Delphos .  With your pardon Sir ,  Why are you ( for I find it is so ) stronger  For Philocles ?  Yes , Sir , he is my eldest .  I , there my hopes do anchor ; else they were  Certain of Ship-wrack : yet the perillous waves  My vessel rides on seems so many graves .  Yet , Sir , your Kingly patience .  This cannot , Sir , be long  In tryal . King Yet I am not bound to wait  On those ingrateful men . O Stratocles ,  You have from your late Errors , which your then  Head-strong ambition hurried and cast you in  With that humility purg'd your self , that I  Conceive you now a temperate Man ; and am  Instructed by the clemency of the Gods  To cherish and reward your vertue . Therefore  From their divine appointment , as my hands —  I am full of fears .  I fear that Garrula has detected me .  May I presume to ask your reason , Sir .  I know obedience .  Now t is most evident . O mighty , Sir ,  Conceive not worse of me then Garrula .  Let us appear together .  You may be pleas'd to hear me first .  I must obey . However t is too late  To change the resolution of my fate .  Where 's my Philargus ? Give me yet his body ,  That with a mothers tears I may imbalm it .  Already  Have you inter'd him then ? you made strange hast .  Was it your subtlety to send me hence ,  Fearing my cries might have reviv'd him , king ?  And so again delay'd your daughters marriage ?  I have enough to cross it yet Philargus   You are deceiv'd , for from my depth of sorrow ,  Through this thick film of tears , I can perceive  You are about to joyn the hands and faiths  Of Philocles and Eudina ,  It is the pleasure of the Gods I cross it .  Nay I am here before you Garrula ,  And now will tell the long hid secret for you .  And if I erre in it , disprove me .  This contract must not be .  Your self  Can never make it . You will sooner joyn  The Wolfe and Lamb . Falcon and Dove together .  Let not the royal blood  Of Thessaly be stain'd with an incestuous match .  This is no dream or fable . But unfain'd  As truth it self : Which with your gracious leave  I shall demonstrate , humbly craving pardon  For my so long concealment , as I 'le yeeld  Due reason for it .  You may remember in your civil wars ,  ( Those cruel warres , as I may justly stile 'em )  In which my husband fell —  When open Rebels and domestick Traytors  Pursu'd your Crown and life ; your gracious Queen  To have been brought to bed ; and was beleev'd  To have miscarried by an abortive birth .  Th' affrighted queen ( yet wise in that extremity )  Suspecting that the innocence of her babe  Born to a Kingdom , could not be secur'd  In those combustions from apparent danger ,  Sent him to me in private , then in travel  Of my Philargus — Charging me to fain  A second labour , with the Midwifes aid ,  For Philocles : I did , and was reputed  Mother of both .  I mov'd her oft to tell you . But she answer'd ,  All is not sound , There 's danger , yet ; And when  After Eudyna's birth she felt her self  At point of death , she strictly did enjoyn  Me and this woman , onely conscious with her ,  By oath of which she had prepar'd this copy  In her own hand , to keep it silent , till  Philocles should be able to secure  Himself from treachery ; or that your terme  Of life expiring , or some accident  Of no lesse consequence requir'd detection .  For further proof —  Doth my son live ? O then I have enough .  Your highness may be pleas'd  Now at so happy leasure to perpend  The Oracle ; which truly hath effected  Each word of the prediction . 