 Newes worth your hearing ,  Meerly to laugh at : Good for nothing else .  Lady , no .  But as I was hankring at an ordinary ,  In quest of a new Master ( for this , here ,  Will never last to a new livory  ' Less he were merrier ) I heard the bravest noise  Of Laughter at a wicked accident  Of Marriage , that was chopt up this Morning .  Who do you think  Has married fair Mistris Millicent ?  Yes , but without a Priest . She has slipt his hold ,  And is made fast enough unto another ,  For which fine Mr. The . so whines and chafes ,  And hangs the head ! More then he would do  For 's father , were he hanged , as you did wish  For laughing newes eene now . Ther 's sport for you .  Thence springs the jest . Old Mr. Quicksands , Sir ,  The bottomless devourer of young Gentlemen ;  He that has liv'd , till past three-score , a batcheler ,  By three-score i' the hundred ; he that has  Undone by Mortgages and under-buyings  So many Gentlemen , that they all despair'd  Of means to be reveng'd .  The Jest is , that they now have found that means  ( As they suppose ) by making of him Cuckold .  They are laying their heads together in every corner ,  Contriving of his horns , and drinking healths  To the success . And there were sport for you now ,  If you were any body .  For that Sir ( look you ) I have here , by chance ,  A false beard which I borrowed , with a purpose  To ha' worn 't and put a jest upon your sadness .  You 'l never have  One of your own so good : you look like Hector .  I warrant you Mistriss .  T is perfect truth : you may believe it . Lady .  Fit reward for Tell-troths .  But that 's not the reward you promis'd me  For watching of your brothers actions ;  You said forsooth ( if 't please you to remember )  That you would love me for it .  T is not for any spight I ow my Master ,  But for my itch at her that I do this .  I am strangely taken . Such brave spirited women  Have cherish'd strong back'd servingmen ere now .  I le be believed first . Therefore pray have patience  To peruse that .  I nere belied him , I .  Shee 'l cut my throat I fear .  It may do yet :  To you I am sweet Lady , and to my master  In true construction : he is his friend I think  That finds his follies out to have them cur'd ,  Which you have onely the true spirit to do .  And your love Mistress ,  ( Brave sprightly Mistress ) is the steeple top  Or rather Weathercock o'top of that  To which aspires my lifes ambition .  Amongst many  Of his rare twelve-moneths melancholy works ,  That lie in 's study . Mistress t is apparent  His melancholy all this while has been  More for her Love , then for his fathers death .  Some small token  In earnest of it . Mistress , would be felt ,  It is a sure one .  And the most feeling pledge she could have given :  For she is a virago . And I have read  That your viragoes use to strike all those  They mean to lie with : And from thence t is taken  That your brave active women are call'd strikers .  The warm touch of my flesh  Already works in her . I shall be set  To better work immediately . I am prevented .  A way and be not seen . Be sure I love thee .  A ha ! This clinches . Another time I 'm , sure on 't .  Too well to be a woman , manly Mistress .  Here Mistress and a good one .  No Lady would wish a shorter . If it were  'T would bear no charge , or carry nothing hotne .  All the virago's that are found in story ,  Penthesilea and Symaramis  Were no such handy strikers as your self :  But they had another stroke , could you but find it ,  Then you were excellent . I could teach it you .  There is a hope as good , now , as a promise .  Best stars attend you ,  Mars arm thee all the day ; and Venus light  Thee home into these amorous arms at night .  Mine host — cry mercy Gentlemen —  My old master alive again ? and he that he kil'd too ?  O honor'd master ! I le keep nothing from you .  There is an act of horror now on foot ,  Upon revenge of your supposed murder ,  Of which to stand and tell the circumstance ,  Would wast the time and hinder the prevention  Of your sons murder , and your daughters ruin .  Let not your amazement drown  Your reason in delay ; your sudden hast  Was never so requir'd as now . Stay not  To ask my why , or whither . As ye go  I shall inform ye . 