 It is most true : onely thus much I tell you , they are your noble and best chosen Friends .  So Madam , this being all I had in charge ,  I must crave leave ( indeed I do not like this  Oportunitie , nor well the countenances of these Hobnols .  She 's honied with the newes : I have already  Madam my Reward , and will no longer stay .  You 'l wrong yourself and Friends then .  By the command of Peasants ?  Madam , hear me .  Whither do you hale me ? you Pease-porridge Peasants :  Is this a place for me to come to Tryal in ?  If I had broke the Law , as I have not  I am a Peer , and do appeal unto  The Kings high Seat of Justice , publikely .  Your selves are Traytors ,  In succouring 'gainst the Law , a dissolute woman  Whom I command you , in the Kings high name ,  To yield into my hands .  By whose Authority ?  That speaks you Traytors : and the King has Law against you and her .  Villains : you dare not so say .  You dare not use me thus : dare you take Justice one ye ?  Must I be mock'd out of my life ? and have  My death by hanging made a sport to Peasants ,  In this blind hole o th' Kingdom ?  I am a Courtier , and servant to the King .  You hobnayl'd Rascals : can you think that you  Are fit to spie or corrects faults at Court ?  I was not bound till now  I have no power to move or stir a limb :  O sacred Queen , use mercy , in adjudging me ,  To present death , to quit me of the torment .  That rages all upon me , all within me .  The sight of you has shot more paines into me  Then I have drops of blood : O let me die .  I hope no cure , and therefore ask no life .  But the Kings Justice to afford me death ,  That is no less deserved then desir'd ;  For I confess , This my Device was but  To make my way to you , t' have murder'd you .  Wrought thereunto by Alinda's Instigation .  More I confess ; The Evidence against you ,  Whereby you were despos'd , was false .  And all these witnesses which now do bring  Addition to my torment , did I hire  Both for their perjury past , and for their late  Attempt upon your life , with the Queens money .  Your sacred mercy Madam , shall save a life then , to be spent in Praises and Prayers for your Grace . 