 Troth I have a great mind to be one of the Philoblathici , a Brother of the Blade and Battoon , as you translate it ; now ye have beat it into my head : But I fear I shall never come on and off handsomely . I have mettal enough methinks , but I know not how methinks to put it out .  Obotts , you mean my money mettal , I mean my valour mettal I .  T'other flyes fast enough already .  Most odious , Did you say ? It is methinks most odoriferous .  A botts on 't , I never saw that Mountebank ; they say , he brought the first resort into this new plantation , and sow'd so much seed of Knavery and Cozenage here , that 't is fear'd 't will never out .  And then again , he drew such flocks of idle people to him , that the Players , they say , curst him abhominably .  Cry mercy Brothers of the Blade and Battoune : Do you think if I give my endeavour to it , I shall ever learn to roar and carry it as you do , that have it naturally , as you say .  And she be as able as she seems , she has in her to satisfie you , and you were a Brother of ten Blades , and ten Battounes .  Battoun thy teeth into thy tongue . )  What 's that a Sister of the Scabberd , brother of the Blade ?  You shall , you shall .  Vow twice before you have it .  Hold , hold , take your powl money ; I thought I would have my will ; and the word I look-for , I 'le coyn thy brains . —  I do not love to give my money for nothing , I have a volume of words here , the worst of 'hem is as good as a blow ; and then I save my Crown whole half a dozen times a day , by half a crown a time , there 's half in half sav'd by that .  O my brave Philoblathici . —  Party perpale and parboild Bawd . —  You will call me brother Clotpoll too when I have taken my oath , and paid my entrance into the faternity of the Blade and the Battoun .  And to all the brothers that are , and are to be of the Blade and the Battoun .  And to all the Sisters of the Scabberd Brother in Election . d ee hear , Pray talk of his father no more , for the next brings him to the belly-work , and then he 'll drink him quite through him .  ' Lady , 't is sworn by Blade and by Battoun .  Of both , sir , by all meanes , both Philoblathicus and Philobatticus , I . I 'le now have all that belongs to your order , or all my money again , that 's for a certain .  Well sir , when I have my Oath , and that I am sworn one of you . I 'le do as you do , and care as little for money as he that has least .  I by all meanes , Captain , for both . S'lid the Battoon may stick to me , when the Blade may flie out o' th' Hilts .  As ever faithful member was .  I defie them all .  A convenient cheap way of mourning .  I understand you , and shall be as forward to fight for a She-friend , as ever the best man in the mirrour of Knighthood was for an honest woman .  And that will go down bravely .  Excellent .  Better and better still .  I 'le swear to them whatsoever they be .  So , now I am a Blade , and of a better Rowe then those of Tytere tu , or Oatmeal hoe , and so an health to our Fraternity , and in chief to our Noble Captain Driblow .  Are you one of the Brotherhood sir , of the Philoblathici .  So have I as I hope to gain honour by 't 40 li. thick at least ; yet I have this left , please you command the half sir .  'T is the first money of mine that was refus'd since my coming to Town . I shall save infinitely .  I see now that I am sworn . How would I swear to get by it .  And the last is that I should not swear , how make you that good ? I thought now I was sworne into this Brotherhood , I might have sworne what , and as much as I would .  Or never credit me or let me never be trusted .  Nev'r-go , nev'r-stir , I vow . I 'le have , I vow then .  Cann't you lend it me now and then brother ? I 'le have , I swear then , and come as nigh swearing as I can .  I protest then , I 'le have I protest , that 's a City-word , and best to cozen with .  Come boyes , fall to some practice , Let me see about at the new French balls , sprung out of the old English vapours   I protest come on . I 'le make a third man .  Yes , by your favour he may ask .  You can grant nothing in this kinde .  That , I protest , may bear exception indeed .  And I protest —  Best send a boy .  Or can you eate a crust without chawing , made of the Flower of Battoon .  The flower of Battoon . I protest a good jest , and 't was mine own before I was aware , for he had the Maidenhead or first-blow of my Battoon . Nay , it shall down .  Let me come to him again , and flesh my self upon him . I will not only flesh my self , but tire upon him .  Then 't is impossible this fellow can be beat out of countenance .  And the Battoon , I beseech you .  If he can pump us up a spring of Sack , we 'll keep him , and break half the Vintners in Town .  I protest the best that I have heard in this kind . I wonder at his ability . I prithee , art not acquainted with my two Poetical Drury-lane Writers ? the Cobler and the Tapster .  I , and the Mumpers , when come they ? I long to see the Sisters , now I am a brother sworn and entred .  Pig , hovv does thy father Hog , the Turkie Merchant ?  Yes , for my Brothership .  At Bloomesbury . Father , I know .  Against discovery of lodgings , haunts , or by-walks , I am warn'd .  And my father and I but one betwixt us , I protest .  So did I , I protest , and therefore , I tell you what . If he can sing such another Song , and look stedfastly the while upon any thing , and hold his hands behind him . I 'le give him half a crown ; if not , he shall ha' nothing for tother .  I will I protest , and set mine eye against his , that he shall not twink , but I 'le perceive it , and lay him o're the pare .  In praise of the Battoon , and if you misse it you shall be sure on 't .  Take you no care for that . Set your eyes and begin .  To prove the Battoon the most noble to be .  Of all other weapons observe his degree ,  In Field to be Leader of all other Armes ,  To conquest and honour , through hazard and harms .  The Gallant and Peasant , the Lord and the Lowne .  Must move by the motion of the Leaders Battoon .  O give me the Battoon .  The Pike and the Halbert are subject to it .  The Ensigne , the Partizan , all must submit ,  To advance , or retire , fall back , or come on .  As they are directed by the Leaders Battoon .  Then it is to the Souldier the greatest Renown ,  To purchase by service to bear the Battoon .  O give me the Battoon .  Marry , and take it Sir , why do you stare about ? though you have broke Covenant , I have not .  Ha! they are not gone , I hope , where be my brothers Drawer .  I protest you jest , do you not ? I gave 'em the full summe , and all the money I had , I protest , I swear , I vow , now they are not here , I may make bold with their words . They have my money , I am sure .  Take him there , put him in a cage , and let him sing it out .  No ? he said he had the favour of the house to sing to Gentlemen .  Protest , thou art generous ; nay , I know where to finde 'em ; and thou shalt go with me to 'em , we will not part now , wee 'll shoune 'em . I vow , ( the words out ) here , I 'le leave my sword for t'other peece .  Take my coat too , a friend and a Battoon is better then a coat and a sword at all times .  O , are ye here ! was it a brotherly trick do ye think , to leave me to pay one reckoning twice ? or did I think never to be made a mouth more , after I had paid my swearing dinner , and am I now a greater mouth then e're I was ?  Halifax my tongue . And listen to a businesse .  Yes , the City mouth we had tother night .  I cry them heartily mercy Are you of the sweet Sisterhood ? I hope to know you all , all the pretty Mumpers in the berrie here , before I have done . 'T is true , I protest , he spake words of you , that such flesh and blood could not bear . He could not have spoken worse of mutton of a groat a quarter .  Rare , I protest .  — oh — oh — oh .  O brave .  I protest , they have pulled my pieced brother in pieces here .  Farewel , friend Peece . I 'le know you better now , before you have 't again .  And I protest .  A brother to be so controuled ?  I desire but to know first , if he be a brother .  Sir , I am satisfied . So let him live .  The Blade and the Scabberd .  Who could have thought this had been such a brother .  Give him some wine , he thirsts .  Will you ! protest .  No , I protest , but struck with admiration at the old Blades humour .  I have no acquaintance in their function , I .  Father , how come you hither ?  Some treacherie upon the brotherhood , perhaps .  'T is now upon the point , h 'as slept two houres .  And of the Philoblathici , as we are now .  The Sisters of the Scabberd , there 's the sport on 't . They have their parts to play upon him too . But for his drink now when he wakes , you said you would have a bottle of the womans what do you call 't yonder ? the Medea .  My pate bleeds for 't ; I protest .  None but the She-Trumpet , a neighbour here , and her Sister , that was Drum-mayor to my Countrey-Amazons , that pull'd up the Inclosures to lie all in Common .  One souldier made up of Sack , is worth as many as would drink a fresh water river dry .  This goes beyond the Blade and the Battoon .  Must we not fall to rifling now , Colonel .  Meaning by us , sir . If our sight offend you ,  Know we are men that dare forbear the place .  Did not I say there was some subtile practice upon the Philoblatici ? and that we were betrayed hither ?  But where 's Nick ? where 's Tonie ?  Shall we , sir , shall we ?  So , sir , I will then , not the Blade alone . But  for your more security , the Battoon , There see my Armes forth coming . 