 Send forth your Man .  One Servant is not fit for all Offices , although you keepe no more ; you presumed indeed , I can no lesse then call it a presumption , although it were but unto mee you write ; I speak not this in the behalfe of any dignity in me ; but that you should overweene that I had ability to wrastle any more with your overgratefull Unkle in your behalfe . Therein was your outrecuidance .  No , I am not wearied ; But still in the same full strength : yet my modesty disswadeth mee from using strength above reason , and my reason prevaileth with me not to strive against a Torrent .  I have both tryed , and tempted him to his vexation .  Your standing upon merit in that Act  Perplexeth nature in him , and confounds  Both your desert , and his benevolence ,  And now since you have urged it , I 'le tell you ,  Your Act was undenyable , most noble ,  And glorious in a Nephew , greater piety  Could not have been expected in a Sonne :  When from the Swords of Theeves and Murderers ,  Your valor rescued him — But —  Fare you well Sir , I thought to have said all this for you , and more then so too . But —  Good Mr. Carelesse , as I can hear I would be heard sometimes .  I was commending of your act , and do so still .  You did expresse your selfe in blood and nature  A perfect Kinsman ; and your piety  Drew blessings on you : for whereas before  Your Unkle left you off to Reprobation ,  He then receives you a Son , ( being his Sisters . )  Adopted you , intended you his heire ,  And out of his Estate then presently  Allowed you two hundred pounds per annum ,  And gave your Man for what he suffered  In the conflict an hundred Marks —  Fare you well Sir the second time —  I came to speake not with you altogether , but unto you for to be heard .  Your Unkle having done so gratefully , and so plentifully for you .  You building still on merit for that service ,  Did hold him so fast bound that you presumed  To run upon more extravagancies  In all the out-wayes of debauchery ,  Till for the one good deed you did for him  He did you forty , in restoring you  From Surfets , Wants , Wounds and Imprisonments ,  Till overborne with charge , and more with anguish ,  At your outragious , unexampled Riots ,  Hee gave you an irrevocable farewell , yet then at your departure . —  Farewell to you the third time .  You will not desperately work a violent end upon your selfe ?  I have dalyed too long , and tempted him too far I feare .  Not so I hope . I will now come to the point Sir , Mr. Carelesse be comforted .  Your Unkle's friends with you .  I thought your spirit had been higher .  I have but dallied with you to search your temper .  Your Unkle is friends with you , I say so farre as to make a further tryall of your nature , you may be yet his heire ; for your Aunt despaireth of any Child by him , having fruitlesly been married now these two years .  It is , and I will bring you to him . And see that all be well .  Poore Gentleman , how weakly he standeth ! The sight of his Unkle will recover him . Come Mr. Careless let us goe .  No , the mind reformed is enough , your habit well becometh you .  Sir , I have brought you home a Reformado ;  and doe intreat ( for what I have said unto him , and he hath fairely answered unto me ) that words may not by you be multiplied .  Doubt him in nothing , for he is come home .  You speake sententiously , for credit sought With Trades-men , then their wares are dearer bought ; So Gentlemen are wronged .  So early ? that is well .  Is it possible ?  It is a most commendable practise in a Gentleman , and it will mature your judgement in the both  Common-wealth and State affaires , and in short time invite you unto the chaire of Helme .  How am I comforted in my Meditation for you , and how over-joy'd will your Unkle be at the use you make of your retirements !  To the faire hands of the most acomplish'd in vertue Mistris Anne Crostill , present , I pray with my service ; The out-side hath no rudenesse on it , and ( I doubt it not ) shee shall finde within all sweetenesse and urbanity .  Sir , what I have already said , and do intend to say unto her from your Unkle , and my selfe on your behalfe , together with what you have here written , shall ( I doubt it not ) prepare so faire a way of proceeding for you ; That at your visit of her you may say , veni , vidi , vici , she is your own .  No Lady , but I guesse it a faire expression of the Writers affection to you , although hee desired mee to crave your pardon for the rudenesse of his stile , it being the first that hee hath composed of that consequence .  I finde shee is pleased , and my indeavour prosperous , for the young Gentleman , I am sorry that I delaid a day in the delivering of it .  In the first place you shall give mee leave to wonder at your impudence ( though it be but in your dreames ) to have a thought that I ever intended , or can be drawne by perswasion , force , or the power of witchcraft to marry you —  Blesse mee ! sure if hee writ this , the Devill dictated to him .  Secondly , I am to tell you , that I am warme in mine Unkles favour . And 't is not a peece a time , or five peeces for a peece of pleasure can undoe mee ; and so I can have change , and scape the captivity of Wedlock .  This could no otherwise be done but by the Devill that ought him the shame .  Thirdly , and lastly , let mee advise you , since you are so hot upon Marriage , though I assure myselfe you love none but mee , ( and I thanke you for 't ) that you frame or dissemble an affection to some one of the City , who is but comparative to your selfe in blood and fortune , and so you may make by-use of me as your friend , and have children like me ,  Lady , the injury done in it , to your selfe is unanswerable , but my wrong in being his Messenger , I will make him answer .  Not for him but against him , I will un say all that I sayd before intended for his good .  Are you serious Lady ?  I 'le doe you service in it .  I guesse that her desire is to doe some act of Revenge upon him . And ( so it be not mortall ) it were but Justice in her for so grosse a scorne by him cast upon a well reputed Gentleman . Yet is it observ'd in her that shee has a violent humour to do , and not to doe things oftentimes wilfully against all good councell or perswasion , shee has the spirit of contradiction in her , and an unalterable resolution upon sodaine intentions , a most incorrigible will shee has that will not bow nor breake . This crosse abusive Letter therefore may doe good upon her ,  however mischievous hee might intend it . If shee meant well to him before , it may the faster bring her on , but it amazes me that hee should write so , bearing his Unkle , and my selfe in hand , that hee so fairely lov'd her , and besought us to negotiate with her for him , should shee forgive it , yet the wrong to us in his vile manners is unpardonable , and so sir , I come to you .  What mischiefe or despight have I e're done you ,  That could provoke your desperate spleene against mee ,  To wound mine honour ?  You have employed mee basely , made mee your  Carrier of scandall , and scurrility to the hands  Of noblenesse and vertue . Could the Fiend  Lust that is in you suffer you to write  No other Sense or Language to a person  Of her faire Name , and Worth , then such as Ruffians  Would send to strumpets ? or it being such .  Enter Wat.    Could not a Porter , or your Pandare there  Serve for the lewd conveyance ?  What a welcom 's that !  You might safer  Ha' sent it so , and your own right hand with it ;  Then to have drawn my just revenge upon you .  It was not so directed .  'T was a grosse carelesnesse , and if you lose  A fortune by 't , do not blame your friends .  Will you walke homewards ?  It will not be convenient to returne this day unto the Widow .  Sir , you resume the temper of humanity ,  And let the Law distinguish you from them ,  You neither are to be their Executioner ,  Nor to fall with them .  Sir be induc'd to it .  But my Lord , there is fallen an unhappy accident betweene Sir Anthony , his Lady and his Nephew , in which your servant Bellamy also is concern'd ; And your Lordship is much , and most humbly besought by the Lady to heare , and examine the difference .  You are wretched in your feare , note your Wifes confidence ; Can Guilt looke with that Face ?  Now doe you note the effect of all Sir Anthony ?  The same Gentleman that you accus'd your Aunt with . 