 Yes forsooth Mother .  Wee 'l meet you at your Horse , brother .  Adiue Brother .  Why look you Brother , It was thought , that I had a tender Pericranion ; or , in direct Phrase , that I was an unthrifty fool . Signior no : you shall now find , that I cannot only keep mine own , but other mens . It is rightly said , He that is poor in Appetite , may quickly be rich in Purse . Desire little ; covet little ; no not your own : And you shall have enough .  Yes Brother , litle enough . I confesse I am your Debtor for the loane of some hundred Marks . Now you have need : who has not ? you have need to have it . I have need to pay it . Here 's need of all hands . But Brother , you shall be no looser by me . Purchase Wit ; Get wit ( look you ) wit . And Brother , if you come to the Court , now my Mother and my Father have bought me an Office there , so you will bring my Sister with you , I will make the best shew of you that I can . It may chance to set you up againe , Brother ; t is many an honest mans fortune , to rise by a good Wife . Farewell sweet Brother . Prithee grow rich againe ; and weare good Cloaths , that we may keep our Acquaintance still . Farewell , deare Brother . Exit .  I shall expect that money shortly . Care to send it ; For I purchas'd my place at a rack'd recompence .  Nay , I told you ; would you but give your Mind to it , you would be a Gentleman quickly .  But could you find in your heart to lend a Gentleman a score of Angells , Mr. Wolsey , on his word ?  Oh , but it must though , I know it . A Citizen can never be a Gentleman , till he has lent all , or almost all his money to Gentlemen . What a while it was ere the rich Joyners son was a Gentleman ? when I my selfe was a Gentleman first , my mony did so burne in my Pockets , that it cost me all that ever I had , or could borrow , or steal from my Mother .  You see Sir , This Widdow is remov'd from the Countrey into the City , to avoyd the multiplicity of Country Gentlemen that were here suitors . Nay you must be a Citty Gallant ; or a Courtier .  I , those that were born , or bred Courtiers I grant you , But to come to 't at your yeares —  I le tell you in a breife character was taught me . Speake nothing that you mean , performe nothing that you promise , pay nothing that you owe , flatter all above you , scorne all beneath you , deprave all in private , praise all in publike ; keepe no truth in your mouth , no faith in your heart ; no health in your bones , no freindship in your mind , no modesty in your eyes , no Religion in your conscience ; but especially , no Money in your Purse .  If you do , take heed of spending it on any thing but Panders , Puncks , and Fidlers ; for that were most unfashionable .  Ha ha ha .  T is very true Sir , shee is worth nine thousand pound : But marry she will not' but a Gentleman : And I think I have beat him off o' th condition , I have put him off o' that scent for ever , with a false character , Heaven and the Court forgive me .  He does not . He 's an Asse .  So so : You shall see wee 'll make a shift with her .  Good Mr. Rufflit .  T is the Widows Boy ,  Tic . Ruff . Nay , wee 'll along with you .  Would I were married to her , as shee is ; and t were but for an hower , I car'd not . Had my mother been but acquainted with her , before shee fell sick , here had been a match !  I 'll call my Mother for you . Shee will make her speak , if shee have but a word left in her belly — Masse here shee comes .  I assure you Mother , we are the three of the Court .  It is confest , and I will do it .  My Quondam Pedagogue !  I cry you mercy Sir . Upon my troth , I tooke you for Mr. Sarpego , my learned Tutor . He is very like him ; Is he not Gentlemen ? But now I come to my selfe againe , I remember this was never his walke , nor these his cloaths .  My ten pound ? Ha , ha ha : I would laugh i faith , if you could bob me off with such payment .  Father ! Father !  The plot ? what plot ?  Midsummer Moon ! Midsummer Moon !  Heaven not blesse me , if I understand not the Baboons mumpings better then your speech . You are more dark then Delphos . What Holywater ?  Father , Heaven pardon me : For sure I have a great desire to call you Cockscomb . I sent no man ; nor is there any so stiled as Holywater about the Court .  Or has not my mother over-beaten you , father ? You may tell me .  Do not weep father . My Lady Ticket will appease all .  Stand firm Father , do not sinck before the face of a Lady .  Sir we have pleasures will make a man forget any thing , even himselfe ; therefore necessarily his wife , who is but part of himselfe .  Hold deare mother .  Mother — Pray Mother —  Dear mother .  Sweet mother —  Nay mother —  Honey Mother —  For modesties sake —  Indeed mother you will be sorry , when you know how much you mistake ; some crafty fellow has put a trick upon you .  'T is true ; misfortune hath wrought the Iewells from my father .  But for my father , or this Ladies wronging you , as I am your son , I assure you I have been an eye-witness of all fair respect towards you .  Mother , as I respect your blessing it is perfect truth .  A Wife ! a Wife , Mother ! O where is shee ?  O ho .  I , and a challenge to ride the wilde Goose chase .  And play'd with Countesses at Shuttle-cock .  She is mine sir , mine sir . Do you mark , I dare likewise seale it sir .  Mother , let 's be wise . Let 's be wise Mother ; fetch a hundred peeces presently : That even upon his first consent , he may be satisfy'd and silenc'd .  Pox , how my Mother staies .  Nay , no marries sir , you have receiv'd the money . You shall make no more marries here . Come my betrothed Spouse , bid a Fice for him , Say black 's thine Eye who dares . Mother I le be married to night , and to bed presently .  never to late to be wise . I hope I am your Son ; and must beare a Brain .  A Whore , wife :  Wife , it shall be so : It is my first Injunction ; you shall do it , or disobey me . You must play it .  I , in jest : What hurt is 't ? And Mother , you shall excuse my Father for this once : For since my wife plaies the Whore , I le play the Foole my selfe . Though , I know , you had rather see him do it , you shall see for a need , I can make shift to perform it as well as he ; as naturally , and to the Life .  Come sweet heart , let 's in and tire us , and be ready to enter presently .  Sfoot I am afraid shee 'l play the whore better then I shall act the fool .  Nay but , nay but do you heare wife ? I do not very well like this ; me-thinks you play too much in earnest .  Sir ! — who , brother Crasy ?  O! I am quite cast away .  She does receive it , beare witness all , she does receive it .  No I 'le no more marries nor conditions , you have receiv'd it .  How ! do you wear breeches ?  I 'le feel that : Sfoot mother this is a man . Come and feel else .  Jeremy ! O Jeremy ! thou wer 't ever too hard for — 