 Prithee be and answered , and hang off o' me ,  I ha' no more to say to you in the way  You wot on Phillis .  I wish you were more thankful , Mrs. Phillis ,  To one has taught you a trade to live upon :  You are not th' first by twenty I have taught it  That thrive well i' the world .  I do not urge you . Take what course you please ,  But look not after me : I am not mark'd  For Matrimony , I thank my stars .  Farewel wag-tail .  Marry thee quoth a ! That 's wise work indeed !  If we should marry every Wench we lie with ,  'T were after six a week with some of us .  ( Marry love forbid ) when two is enough to hang one .  What news ? What flying fame do you labour with ?  Who , the old Rascal Quicksands ? speak good Vince ,  What! has he hangd himself ? speak quickly prithe .  I , and 't be two . Here 's hoopes enough besides  To hold my drink in . Pray thee speak ; what mischief  Is come upon him .  Has somebody over-reach'd him in his way  Of damnable extortion ; and he cut his throat ,  Or swallowed poison ?  Is he then hoisted into the Star-Chamber  For his notorious practises ? or into  The high Commission for his blacker arts ?  Pax , keep it to your self then ,  If you can think it be too good for me .  Why did you set me a longing ? you cry worse  And ten times worse ; and know as well as I ,  The worse it is to him , the better wel-come  Ever to me : And yet you tell me nothing .  Has he Cadzooks ?  Nere go fine sport , Ha , ha , ha . What is she ?  Would he had my wench , was here eene now ,  What is she he has married ? quickly prithe .  But he will never split her , that 's the best on 't .  I hope she 'le break his heart first . Gentlemen ,  I thank you for your news ; and know what I  Will presently go do .  That which we can all at once , Do not hold me .  Cast a pudding — How long ha' they been married ?  You 'l ha' me come too late .  Ne're go 't is a shame he was not Cuckolded  'Fore Dinner .  Pray let me take my course 'fore supper yet .  He has made me so poor  That my poor whore eene now claim'd marriage of me .  Pardon my zeal good Gentlemen ; which onely  Considered but the fitness of the Act ,  And that 't is more then time 't were done ifaith .  'T would anger any man to be nos'd of such a match ;  But I le remove his sorrow —  Gentle Theophilus , you are well met ,  Your sorrow is familiar with us all  In the large loss of your betrothed love ;  But , sir , be comforted : you have our pitty  And our revenge to ease you . T is decreed  Her husband shall be instantly a Cuckold .  What do you mean .  Zooks what mean you .  I say he does deserve to be a Cuckold ;  Let him be what he will , a pox upon him .  I say so too .  But then I say again , The more 's the pitty .  Zookes now your bitch has bit me ,  I say he will be one , he shall be one ;  I l'e make him one my self .  What devils this rais'd ? fall off , t is an ill business .  I thank you Sir .  If the devil know him no better , he will lose  A part of his due I think . But to the purpose ,  I knew your wonted nature would be friends  With me before I could come at you . However , I  Have news for you that might deserve your love ,  Were you my deadly enemy .  Sweet Mistriss Lucy so long unsaluted ?  My Wench become her Chamber-maid ! very pretty !  How the Jade mumps for fear I should discover her .  No , it was coin'd last night , o' the right stamp ,  And passes current for your good . Now know ,  That I , and Mun , and Vince , with divers others  Of our Comrades , were last night at the Bride-house .  A Masque , a Masque lad , in which we presented  The miseries of inforced Marriages  So lively — Zooks , lay by your captious countenance ,  And hear me handsomely .  But mark what follows ;  This morning , early up we got again ,  And with our Fidlers made a fresh assault  And battery 'gainst the bed-rid bride-grooms window ,  With an old song , a very wondrous old one ,  Of all the cares , vexations , fears and torments ,  That a decrepit , nasty , rotten Husband  Meets in a youthful , beauteous , sprightly wife :  So as the weak wretch will shortly be afraid ,  That his own feebler shadow makes him Cuckold .  Our Masque o're night begat a separation  Betwixt 'em before bed time : for we found  Him at one window , coughing and spitting at us ;  She at another , laughing , and throwing money  Down to the Fidlers , while her Uncle Testy ,  From a third Port-hole raves , denouncing Law ,  And thundring statutes 'gainst their Minstralsie .  Our Horn-masque put him off it , ( bless my invention )  For which , I think , you 'l Judge she 'le forsake him  All nights and dayes hereafter . Here 's a blessing  Prepard now for you , if you have grace to follow it .  Is this your way of thanks for courtesies ;  Or is 't our luck alwayes to meet good friends ,  And never part so ? yet before I go ,  I will demand your reason ( if you have any )  Wherein our friendly care can prejudice you ;  Or poyson any hopes of yours in Millicent ?  I answer —  Fair Mistriss Lucy —  Her Maid shall then : or I 'le not out to night .  Be not afraid : I take no notice o' thee ,  I like thy course , Wench , and will keep thy councel ,  And come sometimes , and bring thee a bit and th'wilt .  Thou art not the first  Cast Wench that has made a good Chamber-maid .  Pray tell your Master now : so fare you well Sir .  Let 's ha' good wine , Boy , that must be our welcome .  What excellent luck had we , friend Buzzard , to  meet with thee , just as thy Master cast thee off .  It is a Tavern man — And here comes the wine .  Fill boy — and her 's to thee friend , a hearty draft to  chear thee — fill again boy — There , drink it off .  By Bacchus Mr. Buzzard , that 's a subtil question .  But thrice in all that time ?  And to much purpose , it seem'd by his wives running away .  Hang thy master , here 's a full bowl to his confusion .  That shewes thou art of gentle blood thy self , friend Buzzard .  Well said friend ; up with that , and then out with thy secret .  But the seeret , friend , out with that , you must keep no secrets amongst friends .  Hang him cullion , that would turn thee away .  Wee 'l help thee to handle it , fear it not .  He has one I warrant . Has he cadzooks ?  I vow thou utterest brave things . Is 't a boy ?  Where is he kept , friend , where is he kept .  Pray thee hold thy peace .  Come , come ; I know what we will do with him . Mun , knock him down with the other cup . We 'l lay him to sleep ; but yet watch and keep him betwixt hawk and buzzard as he is , till we make excellent sport with him .  See he jooks already . Boy shew us a private room .  Why how now , Arnold ! What , at thy devotion ?  Gentlemen , we are fitted : take this man w' ye  He is the onely man I would have sought ,  To give our project life . I 'le trust thee Arnold ,  And trust thou me , thou shalt get pieces by 't ;  Besides , I le piece thee to thy Master again .  Go follow your directions .  Sweet mirth thou art my Mistress . I could serve thee .  And shake the thought off of all woman kind  But that old wonts are hardly left . A man  That 's enter'd in his youth , and throughly salted  In documents of women , hardly leaves  While reins or brains will last him : T is my case .  Yet mirth , when women fail , brings sweet incounters  That tickle up a man above their sphear :  They dull , but mirth revives a man : who 's here ,  The solitary musing man , cal'd Arthur ,  Posses'd with serious vanity ; Mirth to me !  The world is full : I cannot peep my head forth  But I meet mirth in every corner : Ha!  Sure some old runt with a splay-foot has crost him !  Hold up thy head man ; what dost seek ? thy grave ?  I would scarse trust you with a piece of earth  You would chuse to lye in though ; if some plump Mistriss  Or a deft Lass were set before your search .  Gid ye good den forsooth .  How vainly this man talks ! speak but truth now ,  Does not thy thought now run upon a Wench ?  I never look'd so but mine stood that way .  Not I cadzooks , but all alike to me ,  Since I put off my Wench I kept at Livory :  But of their use I think I have had my share ,  And have lov'd every one best of living women ;  A dead one I nere coveted , that 's my comfort :  But of all ages that are pressable ;  From sixteen unto sixty ; and of all complections  From the white flaxen to the tawney-Moor ;  And of all statures between Dwarf and Giants ;  Of all conditions , from the Doxie to the Dowsabel .  Of all opinions , I will not say Religious :  ( For what make they with any ? ) and of all  Features and shapes , from the huckle-back'd Bum-creeper ,  To the streight spiny Shop-maid in St. Martins .  Briefly , all sorts and sizes I have tasted .  As well as I could with the worst of 'em tho'l say 't .  Few men come after me that mend my work .  Yes , when I marry , let me have a wife  To have no mercy on me ; let the fate  Of a stale dovting Batchelor fall upon me ;  Let me have Quicksands curse , to take a Wife  Will run away next day , and prostitute  Her self to all the world before her Husband .  Close that point .  I cannot marry . Will you be merry , Arthur ?  I have such things to tell thee .  Pray thee come closer to me . What has crost thee ?  Is thy suppos'd slain father come again ,  To dispossess thee for another life time ?  Or has thy valiant sister beaten thee ? Tell me .  It shall go no further .  Why didst tell me of marrying then ? But I  Have done . And now pray speak what troubles you .  Gone quite away ?  Beyond Sea sure to sight with th' Air , that took  Her fathers last breath into 't . Went she alone ?  Who , the fellow  That brags on 's back so ; the stiff strong chin'd Rascal ?  The devil is in these young Tits ,  And wildfire in their Cruppers .  I know not how to laugh at this : It comes  So near my pitty . But I le to my grigs  Again ; And there will find new mirth to stretch  And laugh , like tickled wenches , hand ore head .  To give us that we come for ?  And Jewels , Watches , Plate , and cloaths of mine ,  Pawn'd for four hundred pound . Will you restore all ?  No surely . But we 'le come as roundly to you  As moneyless Gentlemen can . You know  Good Offices are ready money Sir .  We mean to do you Offices worth your money .  Marry , Sir , as thus ;  We 'le help you to a man that has a friend —  That was exceeding wel acquainted with a Traveler   To have helpt you to your wife again .  What is she dead ?  You shall ha' mine .  We came to jear the Jew , and he jears us .  An honest man could not have had such luck .  Zooks would he had some devilish jealous hilding ,  'T would be a rare addition to his mirth ,  For us to bring our antick in betwixt 'em  Of his changling Bastard .  When 's the Buzzard ?  If not unto our profit , our delight .  Yes , Sir , a Gentleman late posses'd with sadnes ,  Whom I had much a do to draw along  To be partaker more of your mirth then chear .  You say here shall be mirth . How now , what 's that ?  Ha' you a black coney berry in your house ?  If I be not taken with yon'd funeral face ,  And her two eyes the scutcheons , would I were whipt now .  It is the handsom'st Rogue  I have ere seen yet of a deed of darkness ;  Tawney and russet faces I have dealt with ,  But never came so deep in blackness yet .  He keeps this Rie-loaf for his own white white tooth  With confidence none will cheat him of a bit ;  I le have a sliver though I loose my whittle .  He sets me more a fire at her . Well old stick breech  If I do chance to clap your Barbary buttock  In all her bravery , and get a snatch  In an odd corner , or the dark to night  To mend your chear , and you hereafter hear on 't ,  Say there are as good stomacks as your own ,  Hist , Negro , hist .  Why , why — pish — pox I love thee ,  Cadzooks the best of all wench .  When we are alone , then wilt thou .  And I le not lose the Moor-a for more then I  Will speak-a .  Zooks the old angry justice .  I know nothing ;  But give me leave to fear , by his wild humor ,  He 's guilty of her death ; therefore I hope  Hee 'l hang himself anon before us all  To raise the mirth he speaks of .  This Devels bird ,  This Moor runs more and more still in my mind .  O are you come ? And ha' you brought your scene  Of Mirth along with you ?  Cheap enough I warrant ,  But saw you not a Moor-hen there amongst 'em .  If you chance to spy me  Take her aside , say nothing .  I le draw a lot  For the best jewel she wears . But mum my Masters .  Now for six penny custards , a pipkin of bak'd  Pears , three sawcers of stew'd prunes , a groats worth  Of strong ale , and two peniworth of Gingerbread .  I le give her something with her , if I catch her ,  And 't be but in the cole-house .  A whorson blockheads .  I find from whence your skill comes . Yet take me  For thy little Princess of darknesse , and if  I rub her not as white as another can  Let me be hung up with her for a new  Sign of the labour in vain .  Would his brains were in thy belly that keeps the key on 't .  We applaud your devise , and you 'l give me leave  To take your black bride here , forth in a daunce .  Musick , play a Galliard ,  You know what you promised me , Bullis .  How I am taken with the elevation of her nostrils .  Play a little quicker — Heark you — if I lead you  A dance to a couch or a bed side , will you follow me ?  So , so ; quick Musick , quick .  Do you laugh at me .  is gone to dance with her in private , because you laught him out of countenance here .  What was 't to you , you slaves ?  Must you be peeping .  What was 't to you , ye Rascals ?  I love her , and will justifie my Act .  Thou speakest good English now .  Now I applaud my act , 't was sweet and brave .  Mun . Vin . Content , content .  It is the Cuckolds howle . A common cry about the City .  Braver and braver still ,  I aim'd but at a cloud and clasp'd a June ,  Will you be onely mine ?  Then I am made for ever .  Now for the honour of Wenchers .  In fewest words it is .  Or else , before you all , let me be torn  To pieces ; having first those dearest members ,  In which I have most delighted , daub'd with honey .  I am content , to take her as she is ,  Not as your Neece , but as his counterfeit servant ,  Hoping he 'le give me with her all about her .  'T wil be twice  The price of my pawn'd goods . I 'le put the rest  Up for your jeers past on my friends and me .  To take her with all faults .  Hell and her changes .  The devil looks ten times worse with a white face ,  Give me it black again .  Get thee from me .  Take heed , Sir , what you say ,  If she must be my wife . Hands off I pray ,  These are my goods she wears . Give me'em , Phil.   For fear he snatch , I le put 'em in my pockets .  Sweet heart already ! we are soon familiar .  What a pox no , I tro — My wife that must be ?  The devil shift you , then you will be sure  Of change enough .  I will henceforward councel all my friends  To wed their whores at first , before they go  Out o' their hands .  That 's well agen .  Those are the councels women can onely keep .  Cadzooks I will —  Forgiv'me for swearing , and turn Precisian , and pray  I'che nose that all my brethren whoremasters spend no worse .  Though Mr. Quicksands made a Mock-marriage with his English Moor ,  I le not mock thee . 