 I prithee now , I prithee , prithie now  Urge me no more in this case ; for I cannot ,  Nor I wo' not so I wo' not , I be jealous  of mine own wife , mine own deat flesh and blood ?  That 's such a thing ! I pidee speak no more on 't .  So I hope I do Nan .  My cock , my pity nittle nansie cocksie ,  Do I not shew my love when I deny thee  Vnreasonable requests ? I never heard  Of woman that desir'd a loving husband  To be a jealous Master over her .  Especially a City-Shopkeeper .  The best part of whose trade runs through the hands  Of his faire wife too ! 'T is unreasonable .  And thou the first that e're take up the humour .  Hon soit qui maly ponse .  My Cock , my Nansie Cock , my Cocksie Nansie ,  Kisse me , and use thine own conscience : I scorn  The yellow sicknesse , I , let 'hem all say what they will .  D'einty , come thou to me . I will not lose  An haires bredth o' my humour , nor retain  An ill thought o' my Cocks honestie  For all the wealth i' the Exchange , not I   Pish , Honi soit again : Cock , I defie  Calumniation and detraction I .  When I am jealous , let the horne-curse take me ;  And let me be with hornets stung to death .  Cock , Thou shalt never tie me to 't : not I .  I must not lose my harmlesse recreations  Abroad to snook over my wife at home .  Thought'st ha' me like the hair-brain'd Point-tagger ,  That us'd to hammer his fingers at one end  O' th' shop , while 's wife was bargaining at the other ?  Not I ; sweet Cock , pidee le ts heare no more on 't .  Now friend ! Is your businesse to me or my wife ?  To my deare daughter Mrs. Hannah Camelion , at her shop or house in or near the New Exchange .  Cock , I must leave thee .  I hope the good Captaine 's well .  Cock , you shall pardon me . Not I .  I have a match to play at the ducking-pond .  Prithee fore-slow not my occasions , Cock ,  As I forbear to pry into thy secrets .  What is it , quickly ? my sweet Nanny Cock .  'T is done , there : I defie , and dare the devil and all his Clerks to counterfeit my hand . So , my sweet Cock , a kisse and adieu .  Not I , Sbobs yonder comes one of the Blades ,  That thou would'st have me have an eye to ; He  That lives by his wits , and yet is seldom sober :  That goes so gallantly , and has no credit ,  Nor ever buyes with ready money ; But  Barters commodity for commodity .  ( Such as it is ) with Tradesmens wives , they say .  What call you him , oh Askal ; there 's another  Comes with him too . Into thy shop , good Cock .  I wo' not stay , not I . So , farewel Cock .  Cock , I protest Cock , I commend thy course  Thou hast taken in brave Lodgers , gallant Guests ,  Guests o' th' Game Cock ; and my house is counted  A house of quality and recreation , Cock ,  In civil sort and gentle fashion , Cock ,  Sbobs Cock , I know thou wouldest not have it otherwise  For all the wealth i' th' Exchange .  Not I , not I , my little Cocksie Nansie ,  Not I , pish , Hony soit qui maly pense .  Pish , Hony soit agen , i' th' very teeth of 'hem ,  Let 'hem all say what they will . Dainty come thou to me .  Not I , Cock , I 'le see nothing .  I will not leave one ducking pond , for ten dancing schooles .  Yet I can dance , and love it : you know that Cock .  And though you are a Gentlewoman borne ,  You took me for my legs , not for my armes .  Is not that a good Jest , Cock . Sbobs 't was out before  I was aware . Here comes their father .  It seems he has brought in some new scholar .  Sir , when I was a Batchelour , I practis'd ,  Dauncing sometimes .  And maugre wedlock , I have something left  Yet in these legs , that can expresse at least  Love to the quality .  I saw last night  Your new French daunce of three , what call you it ?  I think I could make one in 't .  The Musick 's ready , sir .  But if you saw me at the ducking pond ,  Me and my Trull .  I mean , my bitch , sir .  O she would ravish you .  Not I .  Pish , Hony soit qui maly pense .  So much as you have heard , not one word more .  I assure you but this , Adieu Monsieur and so  I leave you .  Not I , I wo'nt be jealous Cock , and so !  By the Back-door to the ducking pond . I go .  Pish Honi soit . I hate it .  No , she has been preparing of a banquet ,  Which now is ready for you , worthy Mr. Lightfoot ,  And your faire company ; jealousie I defie  The base horne Ague , Mr. Askal I .  Now note me Mr. Askal , and tell me if ever jealous man came so lightly off .  Do so Lady  Before you are mist within . Here is the Closet ,  And here 's the Key in your own hands , And presently I 'le fetch a Priest .  In : some body comes .  She will be yours . And let me tell you , sir ,  I wish you as much joy with her , as I  Have with my Cock .  Alas . alas , good Gentlemen , you would fain  Ha' me be jealous . Honi soit , y' are short .  What 's that ?  What a way would so much money have gone  In betts at the ducking pond ?  'T is too well known already ; All 's too open .  My house , my purse , my wife , and all 's too open .  Was ever loving husband  So much abusd ?  O thou close whore .  Do you deride me ?  Sir , you can witnesse with me , he confest  Receipt of fifty pounds my wife has lent him ,  ( False woman that she is ) for Horn-making ,  Job Journey-work .  I know .  ( At least I think ) I am deceiv'd in both .  My money and thy honesty , but the Lawes  In both shall do me right , or all shall flie for 't .  I 'le instantly to councel .  I dare not look on her , lest I be tempted  To yield unto my shame and my undoing .  Nor any thing , if my Cock had but stood upon 't .  Such was my love , but now ,  Have I not cause ?  What dost thou mean ?  Councel me not sir . All my joyes are gone .  I cannot think now what a ducking pond  Can be good for , except to drown me in 't .  I like that .  I am lost again .  My wives name 's Hannah , sir .  Honi soit qui maly pense .  My Cock , my Cock again , my Nanny cock ,  Cock-all my Cock-a-hoop , I am overjoy'd ,  See , see thy father too .  O wag .  Do so good Cock . Do so now sir , I 'le fetch the Priest .  Sir ; come away .  I have found a carelesse Curate , that has nothing but a bare Coat too loose shall chopt 't up presently . And give him but a piece , he 'll fear no Cannon .  Yes , I assure you ,  I saw their hands joyn'd , and I heard 'hem both  Answer the Priest .  There are more weddings i' th' house , your daughters ,  Are linck't by this time to the two young Frenchmen .  No , I assure you sir . Howere I li'd  At their request , ( small matter for a friend )  I saw all the hurt the Priest did here to day .  That was upon them two there . 