 DOe you know the contents Mr. Saveall of the familiar Epistle you have brought me here ?  Ha , ha , ha , I 'le trust you sir , with the full knowledge of it , pray read it your selfe .  Pray read it out sir , for I finde it so pleasant that I could heare it a whole day together .  On sir , that 's but his first charge .  What follows I pray , there 's the first and second point past ? marke his method .  Have you ever heard so queint a Love Letter ?  Excuse me Sir , he has done me a favour ; I pray informe him so with my great thankes . But for what you conceive a wrong to your selfe , use your discretion , you have no more to say to me for him at this present , have you sir ?  But I 'le not heare you wrong your former love , and judgement of him so , which made so deepe impression here , that I had lock'd his love up as a Jewell in my Breast , and you in striving now to wrest it thence may breake the Cabinet ; I rather wish you 'l be a friendly meanes to draw his presence hither , that I my self may mildly question him .  I feare I shall not rest before I see him , but doe not tell him that , lest in this sullen humour , hee force his absence to afflict mee more ; I 'le hold you sir no longer , deale for me as you can , I know you have a guesse at my desire .  Your Lordship is dispos'd to mirth ;  In marrying of that stripling !  My Lord you much commend his modestie ,  And bashfulnesse , urging your confidence  Of his strange inward hid abilities  ( I hope your Lordships pardon ) can you tell ,  If hee has with that bashfull modesty  Got any of his Mothers Maides with child ?  Or of his Fathers Tenants Wifes , or Daughters ?  I would have some assurance .  My Lord you said youl 'd tell me .  I am loth to speake so plainely to you my Lord ,  But by the worst that you can speake of him  I may the better like him .  You may as well suppose I 'le say 't was well .  The more the merrier .  Indeed !  Good deed call you it , to get other Mens Children ?  I suppose they are wittalls then .  An excellent policie !  And her old husband , and his riotous Kinseman too .  In a strange way me thinks .  I st possible hee has done so much , and sayes so little ?  Your Lordship seemes now to wooe for me , not him , however I am bound in thanks to your noblenesse , in your faire proportion , I hope , I shall not be so poore to require an advocate , when I shall yeild to have a husband . But your mirth becomes your honor , and the young gentlemans reservednes him , Ha , ha , ha .  I doe commend your mirth my Lord , for the lusty straine you spoke him in , that he had yet five children in one weeke , wherein I may presume you thought you had mov'd to my liking , ha , ha , ha —  If I reject one that tenders not himselfe ! yet I commend his caution .  As thinking I am one of your cast peeces  ( Knowing how well your Lordship loves the game )  And now would put mee on him ,  But you misprise mee sinfully sweet Youth  In such a thought , how e're you should not scorne  To ride in your Lords cast boots , though you be Gentleman of 's house .  I 'le heare him say he will not first , by your Lordships leave .  Stay sir , would you be content to have me ?  But say he say agen you shall , speake , will you have mee ?  Without instructions good my Lord .  I now he speakes !  Some signes of love in me ? How would you have it ?  Must I declare it to you , before you seeke it ?  Is your love limited by his favour then ?  He speakes within me now .  Pray my Lord forbeare him , and let him speake , what do you say sir ?  I say I love you , doe resolve to marry you , and then to use you as I list . — To Bell . —  Stay , I doe but tell you what he sayes .  I say again , you shall have none but me , — To Bel .  Pray sir how old are you ?  What Gentleman 's that you speake of ?  All this sir in effect , and more of my affection , can I speake to you .  No more then once a Lover , or at least ,  A bold pretender , having in civill language  Exprest in writing his affection  To a chast Mistris seal'd , and directed it ,  And on the contrary , courted his vertuous friend in brothell language ;  To a lewd strumpet . Have I hit you sir ?  Mr. Bellamy some other time I shall be glad to see you .  Hee lookes with scorne at mee , I must not lose him , yet dare not stay , for feare I tell him so .  I humbly crave your pardon good my Lord ,  For my ill manners , and abrupt departure ;  The cause is urgent , and I beseech your mercy ,  Question it not .  Mr. Saveall I thanke you for my Suitor .  Yes you shall controwle mee in my owne House .  Sir , I perceave some discontent here , I hope your  Nephew has not againe displeas'd you ?  Pray say not so , for feare you force mee love him .  Doe not say so , for feare I fly to him ,  The thought of him already breakes my sleeps ,  I could not rest to night for thinking of him ,  Which made my early hast to unload my minde ,  Presuming that your judgement may excuse  A simple Womans weaknesse , what is shee  That hee courts so ?  Still you speake better of him , and my love must not see him so lost , sir let me speake with you .  What mettall am I of ? his scorne 's a Load-stone ;  No Courtship like his carelesnesse to mee ;  And all dispraise speakes for him ,  Sir I will speake with you .  Nay onely to your eare .  I understand you not .  Can you so slight me ?  But say on composition shee acquit you .  I 'le die or have him presently .  Can you refuse me for a prostitute whore ?  Call all the World to hear me Madam ,  Sir Anthony , and the rest , be all my witnesses ;  Give me your hand sir , here before you all  I plight my faith upon this Gentleman ,  He is my Husband , and I am his Wife .  I care not sir , for your ill will : no more shall hee .  Why answer you not me , in troth plight ?  I 'le give her a brace of hundred pounds .  You promise lustily . 