 At a late Parliment held by the Gods ,  Cupid and Hymen fell at bitter ods  Upon an argument ; wherein each did try  T' advance his own 'bove tothers deity ,  Out of this question , which might happier prove  Love without Marriage , or Marriage without love .  By the effects the tryal must be made :  So each from others Office drew his aid ;  Cupid no more of Hymens matches fram'd ;  Nor Hymen married those that love inflam'd .  Now mark , the sad effects this strife begot ,  Cupid his fiery darts and arrows shot  As thick as ere he did ; and equal hearts  He wounds with equal love . But Hymen parts  Their forward hands ( alas ! ) and joyneth none  But those which his new match-Maker brings on ,  ( Old greedy Avarice ) who by his spells ,  In breasts of Parents and of guardians dwells ,  That force their tendelings to loathed beds ;  Which uncouth Policie to sorrow leads  Thousands a thousand wayes , of which the least  Is this with which we celebrate your feast .  Now my good Host , since you have been our friend  And onely councel keeper in our absence ,  To you , before we visit our own houses  We 'le render a relation of our journey ,  And what the motive was that drew us forth .  'T is true , we did pretend a deadly quarrel  At a great bowling match upon Black-heath ;  Went off ; took horse ; and several wayes , forecast  To meet at Dover , where we met good friends ,  And in one Barque past over into France :  Here 't was suppos'd to fight , like fashion followers  That thither flie , as if no sand but theirs  Could dry up English blood .  No more good neighbour Winloss . What we did  Was to discharge our conscience of a burden  Got ( and 't was all we got ) by your undoing ,  In a sad suit at Law .  He has my sons acquaintance .  Nay , nay , come on .  Whom do you serve ? was I so ill a master ,  That , in my absence , you forsook my children ?  Or how have they misus'd you ? Why dost look  So like an apprehended thief ? I fear  Thou serv'st some robber , or some murderer ,  Or art become thy self one . If the Devil  Have so possess'd thee , strive to turn him out :  He add my prayers to help thee . What 's the matter ?  Dry your eyes : you have it .  Go instantly resume your sexes habit ,  And with the rest be ready , if we call ye  To Quicksands house . The rumour of our coming  Already calls us thither to be assistant  To justice Testy in a pondrous difference .  Nay Gentlemen , we came to end  A business : Pray begin no new one first .  Pray Sir fall to the question .  That Moor , there ?  Did you wed her since your fair wives decease ?  You are agreed .  You have brought her fame in question : T is reveng'd  Now you are in both for her life and honour .  O hateful vice in age .  And mine with it , wishing my daughter were as  